DEF 14A 1 d257185ddef14a.htm DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT Definitive Proxy
Statement


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*UNITED STATES *

*SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION *

*Washington, D.C. 20549 *

*SCHEDULE 14A *

*Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 *

*(Amendment No.     ) *

Filed by the Registrant x

Filed by a party other than the Registrant

Check the appropriate box:

 

		
	  	Preliminary Proxy Statement
	  	*Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule
14a-6(e)(2))*
x 	  	Definitive Proxy Statement
	  	Definitive Additional Materials
	  	Soliciting Material under §240.14a-12

 

 

*LOGO *

 

 

(Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)

 

 

(Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)

Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):

 

		
x 	  	No fee required.
	
	  	Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.
	
	  	

(1)    Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:

 

	  	

(2)    Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:

 

	  	

(3)    Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the
filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):

 

	  	

(4)     Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:

 

	  	

(5)     Total fee paid:

 

	
	  	Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.
	
	  	

Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act
Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was
paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration statement
number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.

 

	  	

(1)    Amount Previously Paid:

 

	  	

(2)    Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:

 

	  	

(3)    Filing Party:

 

	  	

(4)    Date Filed:

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*LOGO *

 

 

Apple Inc.

Notice of 2017 Annual Meeting of

Shareholders and Proxy Statement

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

LOGO

 

						
		
  	  	

 

Notice of 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

	  	 
			
	  	

1 Infinite Loop

Town Hall (Building 4)

Cupertino, California 95014

	   	

February 28, 2017

9:00 a.m. Pacific Time

	  	
	  	

 

The Notice of Meeting, Proxy Statement and Annual Report on Form 10-K

are available free of charge at investor.apple.com.

 

	  	

Items of Business

 

  	(a) 	To elect to the Board of Directors the following eight nominees
presented by the Board: James Bell, Tim Cook, Al Gore, Bob Iger, Andrea
Jung, Art Levinson, Ron Sugar, and Sue Wagner;

 

  	(b) 	

To ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the independent
registered public accounting firm for 2017;

 

  	(c) 	

To vote on an advisory resolution to approve executive compensation;

 

  	(d) 	

To vote on the frequency of advisory votes on executive compensation;

 

  	(e) 	

To vote on the shareholder proposals set forth in the proxy statement,
if properly presented at the Annual Meeting; and

 

  	(f) 	

To transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual
Meeting and any postponements or adjournments thereof.

Record Date

Close of business on December 30, 2016

 

Sincerely,

 

LOGO

Bruce Sewell

Senior Vice President,

General Counsel and Secretary

Cupertino, California

January 6, 2017

/Your vote is important. Please vote. /

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Table of Contents

 

								
Proxy Statement Summary <#toc257185_1> 	   	  	1 	  
Frequently Asked Questions <#toc257185_2> 	   	  	6 	  
Directors, Corporate Governance, and Executive Officers
<#toc257185_3> 	   	  	13 	  
	  	

Directors <#toc257185_4>

	   	  	13 	  
	  		  	

Biographical Information for Our Director Nominees <#toc257185_5>

	   	  	14 	  
	  	

Corporate Governance <#toc257185_6>

	   	  	19 	  
	  		  	

Role of the Board of Directors <#toc257185_7>

	   	  	19 	  
	  		  	

Board Leadership Structure <#toc257185_8>

	   	  	19 	  
	  		  	

Board Committees <#toc257185_9>

	   	  	19 	  
	  		  	

Board Oversight of Risk Management <#toc257185_10>

	   	  	20 	  
	  		  	

Audit Committee Financial Experts <#toc257185_11>

	   	  	21 	  
	  		  	

Code of Ethics <#toc257185_12>

	   	  	21 	  
	  		  	

Review, Approval, or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons
<#toc257185_13>

	   	  	21 	  
	  		  	

Transactions with Related Persons <#toc257185_14>

	   	  	22 	  
	  		  	

Attendance of Directors at Annual Meetings of Shareholders <#toc257185_15>

	   	  	22 	  
	  		  	

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation <#toc257185_16>

	   	  	22 	  
	  		  	

Communications with the Board <#toc257185_17>

	   	  	23 	  
	  	

Compensation of Directors <#toc257185_18>

	   	  	24 	  
	  		  	

Director Compensation—2016 <#toc257185_19>

	   	  	25 	  
	  	

Executive Officers <#toc257185_20>

	   	  	26 	  
Executive Compensation <#toc257185_21> 	   	  	28 	  
	  	

Compensation Discussion and Analysis <#toc257185_22>

	   	  	28 	  
	  	

Executive Compensation Tables <#toc257185_23>

	   	  	39 	  
	  		  	

Summary Compensation Table—2016, 2015, and 2014 <#toc257185_24>

	   	  	39 	  
	  		  	

Grants of Plan-Based Awards—2016 <#toc257185_25>

	   	  	41 	  
	  		  	

Outstanding Equity Awards at 2016 Year-End <#toc257185_26>

	   	  	43 	  
	  		  	

Stock Vested—2016 <#toc257185_27>

	   	  	45 	  
	  		  	

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control <#toc257185_28>

	   	  	46 	  
Proposals <#toc257185_29> 	   	  	48 	  
	  	

Overview of Proposals <#toc257185_30>

	   	  	48 	  
	  	

Proposal No. 1—Election of Directors <#toc257185_31>

	   	  	49 	  
	  	

Proposal No.  2—Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm <#toc257185_32>

	   	  	50 	  
	  	

Proposal No.  3—Advisory Vote to Approve Executive Compensation
<#toc257185_33>

	   	  	52 	  
	  	

Proposal No.  4—Advisory Vote on Frequency of Say-on-Pay Votes
<#toc257185_34>

	   	  	53 	  
	  	

Proposal No. 5—Shareholder Proposal <#toc257185_35>

	   	  	54 	  
	  	

Proposal No. 6—Shareholder Proposal <#toc257185_36>

	   	  	56 	  
	  	

Proposal No. 7—Shareholder Proposal <#toc257185_37>

	   	  	59 	  
	  	

Proposal No. 8—Shareholder Proposal <#toc257185_38>

	   	  	62 	  
	  	

Proposal No. 9—Shareholder Proposal <#toc257185_39>

	   	  	64 	  
	  	

Other Matters <#toc257185_41>

	   	  	66 	  
Audit and Finance Committee Report <#toc257185_42> 	   	  	67 	  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
<#toc257185_43> 	   	  	68 	  
Equity Compensation Plan Information <#toc257185_44> 	   	  	71 	  
Directions to the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
<#toc257185_45> 	   			

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proxy Statement Summary

This summary highlights the proposals to be acted upon, as well as
financial, compensation, and corporate governance information described
in more detail elsewhere in this Proxy Statement. In addition, this
summary provides a brief description of Apple’s values.

In this Proxy Statement, the terms “Apple,” “we,” and “our” refer to
Apple Inc. The information contained on apple.comis not incorporated by
reference into this Proxy Statement.

Annual Meeting Proposals

 

								
  	  	   	   	

*Proposal*

 

	   	

 

*Recommendation
of the Board*

 

	  	 
	  	

 

1.

 

	   	

 

Election of Directors

 

	   	

 

/FOR each of the nominees/

 

	  	
	  	

 

2.

 

	   	

 

Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

 

	   	

 

/FOR/

 

	  	
	  	

 

3.

 

	   	

 

/Say-on-Pay/

Advisory Vote to Approve Executive Compensation

 

	   	

 

/FOR/

 

	  	
	  	

 

4.

 

	   	

 

/Say-on-Pay Frequency/

Advisory Vote on Frequency of Say-on-Pay Votes

 

	   	

 

/1 YEAR/

 

	  	
	  	

 

5.

 

	   	

 

/Shareholder Proposal/

Charitable Giving - Recipients, Intents and Benefits

 

	   	

 

/AGAINST/

 

	  	
	  	

 

6.

 

	   	

 

/Shareholder Proposal/

Diversity of Senior Management and the Board

 

	   	

 

/AGAINST/

 

	  	
	  	

 

7.

 

	   	

 

/Shareholder Proposal/

Shareholder Proxy Access Amendments

 

	   	

 

/AGAINST/

 

	  	
	  	

 

8.

 

	   	

 

/Shareholder Proposal/

Executive Compensation Reform

 

	   	

 

/AGAINST/

 

	  	
	  	

 

9.

 

	   	

 

/Shareholder Proposal/

Executives to Retain Significant Stock

 

	   	

 

/AGAINST/

 

	  	

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 1

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Compensation and Performance Highlights

For a detailed discussion of our executive compensation program, please
see the “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” beginning on page 28.

2016 Compensation Program

Our executive compensation program is designed to be simple, effective,
and link pay to performance, while reflecting the size, scope, and
success of Apple’s business, as well as the responsibilities of our
executive officers.

The elements of our program and highlights from 2016 are as follows:

 

		
*Base Salary* 	   	

•  The annual base salary for our CEO was $3 million, and the annual
base salary for each of our other named executive officers was $1 million.

	
*Annual Cash Incentive* 	   	

•  The cash incentive program for our named executive officers measured
net sales and operating income results against threshold, target, and
maximum performance goals.

	
*Long-Term Equity Incentives* 	   	

•  The equity awards granted to our named executive officers contain a
substantial performance component based on Apple’s total shareholder
return relative to the other companies in the S&P 500 over a three-year
performance period.

2016 Named Executive Officer Target Pay Mix

 

		

LOGO

 

	   	Tim Cook has not received an equity award since 2011
LOGO

The chart above shows target dollar values for each element of our named
executive officers’ 2016 compensation. Annual cash incentives for 2016
paid out at 89.5% of target. For more information, please see the annual
cash incentive discussion beginning on page 33.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 2

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

2016 Financial Performance and Annual Cash Incentive Payouts

Apple delivered another year of strong financial results in 2016.
However, the two financial measures used to evaluate executive
performance under our annual cash incentive program, net sales and
operating income, declined from our record-breaking 2015 levels. These
results were below the target performance goals set by the Compensation
Committee. As a result, the annual cash incentive payouts to our named
executive officers were below target.

 

 

		
	

Net Sales

$215.6B

 

	   	

Operating Income

$60.0B

 

	

LOGO

	   	LOGO

Long-Term Equity Incentives and Total Shareholder Return

Apple is focused on creating long-term value for our shareholders, and
for the three-year period from September 29, 2013 through September 24,
2016, our total shareholder return was 73.6%. Our executive compensation
program is weighted considerably toward long-term equity awards. This
practice creates a substantial retention incentive, encourages our
executive officers to focus on Apple’s long-term success, and aligns
with the long-term interests of our shareholders.

2017 Compensation Program Updates

For 2017, we increased the performance-based component of our long-term
equity incentives to 50% of the grant date fair value of the award,
placing an even greater emphasis on performance-based compensation for
our executive officers.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 3

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Corporate Governance

 

Apple believes that effective corporate governance should include
regular constructive discussions with our shareholders. We have a
proactive engagement process that encourages feedback from our
shareholders. This feedback helps shape our governance practices, which
include:

 

  	• 	  	

A majority voting standard for uncontested elections of directors;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

One or more holders entitled to cast at least 10% of votes are permitted
to call a special meeting of shareholders;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Adoption of proxy access in 2015, and recently adopted enhancements to
our proxy access bylaws to make it easier for shareholders to nominate
director candidates;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Changes to the performance-based component of the long-term equity
incentives under our 2017 executive compensation program; and

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Stock ownership guidelines for our CEO, executive officers, and directors.

	 

Board of Directors and Committees

LOGO  Chair   LOGO  Member               

 

										
   	     	

*Age as of*

*Annual Meeting*

	     	

*Director Since*

(calendar year)

	     	

*Audit*

*Committee*

	     	

*Compensation*

*Committee*

	     	

*Nominating*

*Committee*

					

James Bell

 

 

	     	68 	     	2015 	     	LOGO   	     	  	     	 
					

Tim Cook

/Chief Executive Officer/

 

	     	56 	     	2011 	     	  	     	  	     	 
					

Al Gore

 

 

	     	68 	     	2003 	     	  	     	LOGO   	     	LOGO  
					

Bob Iger

 

 

	     	66 	     	2011 	     	  	     	LOGO   	     	LOGO  
					

Andrea Jung

 

 

	     	58 	     	2008 	     	  	     	LOGO   	     	LOGO  
					

Art Levinson

/Chairman of the B/oard

 

	     	66 	     	2000 	     	LOGO   	     	  	     	 
					

Ron Sugar

 

 

	     	68 	     	2010 	     	LOGO   	     	  	     	 
					

Sue Wagner

 

 

	     	55 	     	2014 	     	LOGO   	     		     	

 

								
	  	

 

7.6 Years

Average Tenure

 

	   		     	

 

2 New Directors

in Last Three Years

 

	  	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 4

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Apple Values

 

				

 

LOGO

 

Inclusion and Diversity

apple.com/diversity

 

Apple believes diversity is more than one gender, race, or ethnicity. lt
is the entire human experience.

 

Our hiring trends over the last three years show steady progress in
attracting more women and under-represented minorities.

 

We achieved pay equity in the United States for similar roles and
performance, and we are committed to maintaining pay equity.

	  		  	

LOGO

Accessibility

apple.com/accessibility

 

Apple believes that technology should be accessible to everyone.

 

Our products are powerful and affordable assistive devices, with
built-in accessibility features such as VoiceOver, SwitchControl, and
support for Made for iPhone hearing aids.

 

We received the 2016 Robert S. Bray Award from the American Council of
the Blind for continued accessibility innovation across all of our products.

		

LOGO

 

Supplier Responsibility

apple.com/supplier-responsibility

 

Apple is committed to providing fair and safe working conditions,
creating greater opportunities for workers, and transparently reporting
on our efforts at every level of the supply chain.

 

As of December 2016, 100% of smelters/refiners committed to or are
participating in third-party assessments for tin, tungsten, tantalum,
gold, and cobalt.

 

We conducted 705 supply chain assessments on labor and human rights,
health and safety, and environment in 2016, covering over 1.3 million
workers in 30 countries.

	  	

 

	  	

 

LOGO

 

Education

apple.com/education

 

Apple believes education is a fundamental human right and that a quality
education should be accessible to all.

 

Our ConnectED program has helped create transformative learning
environments in 114 underserved U.S. schools, reaching over 4,000
teachers and 50,000 students.

 

The Apple Teacher program delivers free professional development for
educators, and Everyone Can Code provides free materials to learn,
write, and teach code.

		

 

LOGO

 

Privacy and Security

apple.com/privacy

 

Security is fundamental to the design of all Apple hardware, software,
and services.

 

Apple has been protecting user data for over a decade with SSL and TLS
in Safari, File Vault on Mac, and encryption that is built into iOS.

 

We utilize privacy by design to help create the best user experience and
we never sell user data.

 

	  		  	

LOGO

 

Environment

apple.com/environment

 

Apple takes the same innovative approach to the environment as we do
with our products.

 

We use 100% renewable energy in 23 countries, and 93% of the electricity
in 2015 for our global operations comes from renewable sources.

 

In 2015, over 99% of the virgin paper used in our product packaging came
from sustainably managed forests or controlled wood sources.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 5

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Frequently Asked Questions

 

						
		
  	   	2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 	   	 
			
	   	

*When:*

	   	

February 28, 2017

9:00 a.m. Pacific Time

Admission will begin at 7:30 a.m. Pacific Time

	   	
			
	   	

*Where:*

	   	

1 Infinite Loop

Town Hall (Building 4)

Cupertino, California 95014

	   	
			
	   	*Record Date:* 	   	

December 30, 2016

	   	
			
	   	*Bring:* 	   	

•  Valid photo identification, such as a driver’s license or passport

 

•  Proof of stock ownership as of the Record Date

	   	
		
	   	

The use of mobile phones, pagers, recording or photographic equipment,
tablets, or computers is not permitted at the Annual Meeting.

 

	   	

General

/Why am I receiving these materials? /

You are invited to attend Apple’s 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
and vote on the proposals described in this Proxy Statement because you
were an Apple shareholder on December 30, 2016 (the “Record Date”).
Apple is soliciting proxies for use at the Annual Meeting, including any
postponements or adjournments.

Even if you plan on attending the Annual Meeting in person, we encourage
you to vote your shares in advance using one of the methods described in
this Proxy Statement to ensure that your vote will be represented at the
Annual Meeting.

These materials were first sent or made available to shareholders on
January 6, 2017.

/What is included in these proxy materials? /

 

  	• 	  	

The Notice of 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

	 

 

  	• 	  	

This Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 24, 2016
(the “Annual Report”)

	 

If you requested printed versions by mail, these printed proxy materials
also include the proxy card or voting instruction form for the Annual
Meeting.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 6

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

/Why did I receive a one-page notice in the mail regarding the internet
availability of proxy materials instead of a full set of proxy materials? /

Apple uses the internet as the primary means of furnishing proxy
materials to shareholders. We are sending a Notice of Internet
Availability of Proxy Materials (the “Notice of Internet Availability”)
to our shareholders with instructions on how to access the proxy
materials online or request a printed copy of the materials.

Shareholders may follow the instructions in the Notice of Internet
Availability to elect to receive future proxy materials in print by mail
or electronically by email. We encourage shareholders to take advantage
of the availability of the proxy materials online to help reduce the
environmental impact of our annual meetings, and reduce Apple’s printing
and mailing costs.

Apple’s proxy materials are also available at investor.apple.com.

/I share an address with another shareholder, and we received only one
paper copy of the proxy materials. How can I obtain an additional copy
of the proxy materials? /

Apple has adopted a procedure called “householding.” Under this
procedure, Apple may deliver a single copy of the Notice of Internet
Availability and, if you requested printed versions by mail, this Proxy
Statement and the Annual Report to multiple shareholders who share the
same address, unless Apple has received contrary instructions from one
or more of the shareholders. This procedure reduces the environmental
impact of our annual meetings, and reduces Apple’s printing and mailing
costs. Shareholders who participate in householding will continue to
receive separate proxy cards. Upon written or oral request, Apple will
deliver promptly a separate copy of the Notice of Internet Availability
and, if you requested printed versions by mail, this Proxy Statement and
the Annual Report to any shareholder that elects not to participate in
householding.

To receive, free of charge, a separate copy of the Notice of Internet
Availability and, if you requested printed versions by mail, this Proxy
Statement or the Annual Report, or separate copies of any future notice,
proxy statement, or annual report, you may write or call Apple at the
following email address, physical address, or phone number:

investor_relations@apple.com

Apple Investor Relations

1 Infinite Loop MS: 301-4IR

Cupertino, California 95014

(408) 974-3123

If you are receiving more than one copy of the proxy materials at a
single address and would like to participate in householding, please
contact Apple at the email address, physical address, or phone number
above. Shareholders who hold shares in “street name” may contact their
brokerage firm, bank, broker-dealer, or other similar organization to
request information about householding.

/What is the quorum requirement for the Annual Meeting? /

Holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at the Annual
Meeting must be present at the Annual Meeting in person or by proxy for
the transaction of business. This is called a quorum. Your shares will
be counted for purposes of determining if there is a quorum if:

 

  	• 	  	

You are entitled to vote and you are present in person at the Annual
Meeting; or

	 

 

  	• 	  	

You have properly voted by proxy online, by phone or by submitting a
proxy card or voting instruction form by mail.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 7

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Broker non-votes and abstentions are counted for purposes of determining
whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is not present, we may propose
to adjourn the Annual Meeting to solicit additional proxies and
reconvene the Annual Meeting at a later date.

/Who will serve as the inspector of election? /

A representative from Apple’s transfer agent, Computershare Trust
Company, N.A. (“Computershare”), will serve as the inspector of election.

/Who is paying the costs of this proxy solicitation? /

Apple is paying the costs of the solicitation of proxies. Apple has
retained Georgeson LLC to assist in the distribution of proxy materials
and the solicitation of proxies from brokerage firms, banks,
broker-dealers, and other similar organizations representing beneficial
owners of shares for the Annual Meeting. We have agreed to pay Georgeson
a fee of approximately $15,000 plus out-of-pocket expenses. You may
contact Georgeson at (866) 828-4304.

Apple must also pay brokerage firms, banks, broker-dealers, and other
similar organizations representing beneficial owners certain fees
associated with:

 

  	• 	  	

Forwarding the Notice of Internet Availability to beneficial owners;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Forwarding printed proxy materials by mail to beneficial owners who
specifically request them; and

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Obtaining beneficial owners’ voting instructions.

	 

In addition to solicitations by mail, the proxy solicitor and Apple’s
directors, officers, and employees, without additional compensation, may
solicit proxies on Apple’s behalf in person, by phone, or by electronic
communication.

/Where are Apple’s principal executive offices located and what is
Apple’s main phone number? /

Apple’s principal executive offices are located at 1 Infinite Loop,
Cupertino, California 95014. Apple’s main phone number is (408) 996-1010.

/What is Apple’s fiscal year? /

Apple’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last
Saturday of September. Unless otherwise stated, all information
presented in this Proxy Statement is based on Apple’s fiscal calendar.

Voting

/Who may vote at the Annual Meeting? /

Each share of Apple’s common stock has one vote on each matter. Only
“shareholders of record” as of the close of business on the Record Date
are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual Meeting. As of the Record
Date, there were 5,257,816,000 shares of Apple’s common stock issued and
outstanding, held by 26,000 shareholders of record. In addition to
shareholders of record of Apple’s common stock, “beneficial owners of
shares held in street name” as of the Record Date can vote using the
methods described below.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 8

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

/What is the difference between a “shareholder of record” and a
“beneficial owner of shares held in street name”? /

*Shareholder of Record.*If your shares are registered directly in your
name with Computershare, you are the shareholder of record with respect
to those shares.

*Beneficial Owner of Shares Held in Street Name.*If your shares are held
in an account at a brokerage firm, bank, broker-dealer, or other similar
organization, then you are the “beneficial owner of shares held in
street name.” As a beneficial owner, you have the right to instruct your
broker, bank, trustee, or nominee how to vote your shares. Most
individual shareholders are beneficial owners of shares held in street
name.

/If I am a shareholder of record, how do I vote? /

If you are a shareholder of record, there are four ways to vote:

 

  	• 	  	

*In Person.*You may vote in person at the Annual Meeting by requesting a
ballot from an usher when you arrive.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Online.*You may vote by proxy by visiting investorvote.com/AAPLand
following the instructions provided in the Notice of Internet Availability.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Phone.*If you request printed copies of the proxy materials by mail,
you will receive a proxy card and you may vote by proxy by calling the
toll free number found on the proxy card.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Mail.*If you request printed copies of the proxy materials by mail, you
will receive a proxy card and you may vote by proxy by filling out the
proxy card and returning it in the envelope provided.

	 

Even if you plan on attending the Annual Meeting in person, we encourage
you to vote your shares in advance online, by phone, or by mail to
ensure that your vote will be represented at the Annual Meeting.

/If I am a beneficial owner of shares held in street name, how do I vote? /

If you are a beneficial owner of shares held in street name, there are
four ways to vote:

 

  	• 	  	

*In Person.*If you are a beneficial owner of shares held in street name
and wish to vote in person at the Annual Meeting, you must obtain a
“legal proxy” from the organization that holds your shares. A legal
proxy is a written document that authorizes you to vote your shares held
in street name at the Annual Meeting. Please contact the organization
that holds your shares for instructions regarding obtaining a legal proxy.

	 

You must bring a copy of the legal proxy to the Annual Meeting and ask
for a ballot from an usher when you arrive. In order for your vote to be
counted, you must hand both the copy of the legal proxy and your
completed ballot to an usher to be provided to the inspector of election.

 

  	• 	  	

*Online.*You may vote by proxy by visiting proxyvote.comand entering the
control number found in your Notice of Internet Availability. The
availability of online voting may depend on the voting process of the
organization that holds your shares.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Phone.*If you request printed copies of the proxy materials by mail,
you will receive a voting instruction form and you may vote by proxy by
calling the toll free number found on the voting instruction form. The
availability of phone voting may depend on the voting process of the
organization that holds your shares.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Mail.*If you request printed copies of the proxy materials by mail, you
will receive a voting instruction form and you may vote by proxy by
filling out the voting instruction form and returning it in the envelope
provided.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 9

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

/How are proxies voted? /

All shares represented by valid proxies received prior to the taking of
the vote at the Annual Meeting will be voted and, where a shareholder
specifies by means of the proxy a choice with respect to any matter to
be acted upon, the shares will be voted in accordance with the
shareholder’s instructions.

/Can I change my vote after I have voted? /

You may revoke your proxy and change your vote at any time before the
taking of the vote at the Annual Meeting.

 

  	• 	  	

*In Person.*You may revoke your proxy and change your vote by attending
the Annual Meeting and voting in person. However, your attendance at the
Annual Meeting will not automatically revoke your proxy unless you
properly vote at the Annual Meeting or specifically request that your
prior proxy be revoked by delivering a written notice of revocation
prior to the Annual Meeting to Apple’s Secretary at 1 Infinite Loop,
MS: 301-4GC, Cupertino, California 95014.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Online.*You may change your vote using the online voting method
described above, in which case only your latest internet proxy submitted
prior to the Annual Meeting will be counted.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Phone.*You may change your vote using the phone voting method described
above, in which case only your latest telephone proxy submitted prior to
the Annual Meeting will be counted.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

*Mail.*You may revoke your proxy and change your vote by signing and
returning a new proxy card or voting instruction form dated as of a
later date, in which case only your latest proxy card or voting
instruction form received prior to the Annual Meeting will be counted.

	 

/What happens if I do not give specific voting instructions? /

*Shareholders of Record.*If you are a shareholder of record and you:

 

  	• 	  	

Indicate when voting online or by phone that you wish to vote as
recommended by the Board; or

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Sign and return a proxy card without giving specific voting instructions,

	 

then the persons named as proxy holders, Luca Maestri and Bruce Sewell,
will vote your shares in the manner recommended by the Board on all
matters presented in this Proxy Statement and as they may determine in
their best judgment with respect to any other matters properly presented
for a vote at the Annual Meeting.

*Beneficial Owners of Shares Held in Street Name.*If you are a
beneficial owner of shares held in street name and do not provide the
organization that holds your shares with specific voting instructions,
then the organization that holds your shares may generally vote your
shares in their discretion on “routine” matters, but cannot vote on
“non-routine” matters.

/Which proposals are considered “routine” or “non-routine”? /

The following proposal is considered a routine matter:

 

  	• 	  	

The ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Apple’s
independent registered public accounting firm for 2017 (Proposal No. 2).

	 

A broker or other nominee may generally vote in their discretion on
routine matters, and therefore no broker non-votes are expected in
connection with Proposal No. 2.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 10

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

The following proposals are considered non-routine matters:

 

  	• 	  	

Election of directors (Proposal No. 1);

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Advisory resolution to approve executive compensation (Proposal No. 3);

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on executive
compensation (Proposal No. 4); and

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Each of shareholder proposals No. 5 through No. 9.

	 

If the organization that holds your shares does not receive instructions
from you on how to vote your shares on a non-routine matter, that
organization will inform the inspector of election that it does not have
the authority to vote on the matter with respect to your shares. This is
generally referred to as a “broker non-vote.” Therefore, broker
non-votes may exist in connection with Proposal No. 1 and Proposals
No. 3 through No. 9.

/What is the voting requirement to approve each of the proposals? /

With respect to the election of directors (Proposal No. 1), Apple’s
bylaws provide that, in an uncontested election of directors, the
affirmative vote of (i) a majority of the shares present or represented
by proxy and voting at the Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the
shares required to constitute a quorum is required to elect a director.
An “uncontested election of directors” means an election of directors in
which the number of candidates for election does not exceed the number
of directors to be elected by the shareholders at that election.

Approval of Proposal No. 2, Proposal No. 3, and Proposals No. 5 through
No. 9 requires, in each case, the affirmative vote of both (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

A plurality of the votes cast for Proposal No. 4 will be considered the
shareholders’ preferred frequency for holding an advisory vote on
executive compensation.

/How are broker non-votes and abstentions treated? /

Broker non-votes and abstentions are counted for purposes of determining
whether a quorum is present. Only “FOR” and “AGAINST” votes are counted
for purposes of determining the votes received in connection with each
proposal (or, in the case of Proposal No. 4, votes for “1 Year,” “2
Years,” and “3 Years”). Broker non-votes and abstentions will have no
effect on determining whether the affirmative vote constitutes a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting (or, in the case of Proposal No. 4, whether the vote for
“1 Year,” “2 Years,” or “3 Years” constitutes a plurality of the shares
voted on the proposal).

In addition, for each proposal other than Proposal No. 4, the
affirmative vote equal to a majority of the shares necessary to
constitute a quorum is also required for approval. Therefore, broker
non-votes and abstentions could prevent the election of a director or
the approval of a proposal because they do not count as affirmative votes.

/Is my vote confidential? /

Proxy instructions, ballots, and voting tabulations that identify
individual shareholders are handled in a manner that protects your
voting privacy. Apple will not disclose the proxy instructions or
ballots of individual shareholders, except:

 

  	• 	  	

To allow for the tabulation and certification of votes;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

To facilitate a successful proxy solicitation;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

To assert claims for Apple;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

To defend claims against Apple; and

	 

 

  	• 	  	

As necessary to meet applicable legal requirements.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 11

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

If you write comments on your proxy card or ballot, the proxy card or
ballot may be forwarded to Apple’s management and the Board to review
your comments.

/Where can I find the voting results of the Annual Meeting? /

Preliminary voting results will be announced at the Annual Meeting.
Final voting results will be tallied by the inspector of election after
the taking of the vote at the Annual Meeting. Apple will publish the
final voting results in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) within four business days
following the Annual Meeting.

Director Nominations and Other Matters for the 2018 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders

/What is the deadline to propose matters for inclusion in the proxy
materials for the 2018 annual meeting of shareholders? /

The proposal must be received on or prior to September 8, 2017. All
proposals must comply with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).

/What is the deadline to propose matters for consideration at the 2018
annual meeting of shareholders, but not for inclusion in the proxy
materials? /

The proposal must be received not earlier than the close of business on
October 31, 2017 and not later than the close of business on
November 30, 2017. The proposal must be submitted by a shareholder of
record and must set forth the information required by Apple’s bylaws. If
you are a beneficial owner of shares held in street name, you can
contact the organization that holds your shares for information about
how to register your shares directly in your name as a shareholder of
record.

/What is the deadline to nominate individuals for election as directors
at the 2018 annual meeting of shareholders using proxy access? /

A shareholder, or group of up to 20 shareholders, that has owned
continuously for at least three years shares of Apple stock representing
an aggregate of at least 3% of our outstanding shares, may nominate and
include in Apple’s proxy materials director nominees constituting up to
20% of Apple’s Board, provided that the shareholder(s) and nominee(s)
satisfy the requirements in Apple’s bylaws. Notice of proxy access
director nominees must be received not earlier than the close of
business on August 9, 2017 and not later than the close of business on
September 8, 2017.

/What is the deadline to nominate individuals for election as directors
at the 2018 annual meeting of shareholders, but not included in the
proxy materials? /

Director nominations that a shareholder intends to present at the 2018
annual meeting of shareholders, but does not intend to have included in
Apple’s proxy materials, must be received not earlier than the close of
business on October 31, 2017 and not later than the close of business on
November 30, 2017. Notice of director nominations must be submitted by a
shareholder of record and must set forth the information required by
Apple’s bylaws. If you are a beneficial owner of shares held in street
name, you can contact the organization that holds your shares for
information about how to register your shares directly in your name as a
shareholder of record.

/Where do I send proposals and director nominations for the 2018 annual
meeting of shareholders? /

Proposals and director nominations must be sent either by mail to
Apple’s Secretary at 1 Infinite Loop, MS: 301-4GC, Cupertino, California
95014, or by email to shareholderproposal@apple.com.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 12

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Directors, Corporate Governance, and Executive Officers

Directors

Apple’s Board consists of a diverse group of leaders in their respective
fields. Most of our directors have senior leadership experience at major
domestic and multinational companies. In these positions, they have
gained significant and diverse management experience, including
strategic and financial planning, public company financial reporting,
compliance, risk management and leadership development. They also have
experience serving as executive officers, or on boards of directors and
board committees, of other public companies, and have an understanding
of corporate governance practices and trends. In addition, many of our
directors have experience as directors or trustees of significant
academic, research, nonprofit, and philanthropic institutions, and bring
unique perspectives to the Board.

The Board and its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (the
“Nominating Committee”) believe the skills, qualities, attributes, and
experience of our directors provide Apple with business acumen and a
diverse range of perspectives to engage each other and management to
address effectively Apple’s evolving needs and represent the best
interests of Apple’s shareholders.

The Nominating Committee considers candidates for director who are
recommended by its members, by other Board members, by shareholders, and
by management, as well as those identified by a third-party search firm
retained to assist in identifying and evaluating possible candidates. In
evaluating potential nominees to the Board, the Nominating Committee
considers, among other things, independence, character, ability to
exercise sound judgment, diversity, age, demonstrated leadership,
skills, including financial literacy, and experience in the context of
the needs of the Board. The Nominating Committee is committed to
actively seeking out highly qualified women and individuals from
minority groups to include in the pool from which Board nominees are
chosen. The Nominating Committee considers candidates recommended by
shareholders and evaluates them using the same criteria as for other
candidates recommended by its members, other members of the Board, or
other persons.

In addition, in 2015, the Board adopted amendments to our bylaws to
implement proxy access. A shareholder, or group of up to 20
shareholders, owning continuously for at least three years shares of
Apple stock representing an aggregate of at least 3% of our outstanding
shares, may nominate and include in Apple’s proxy materials director
nominees constituting up to 20% of Apple’s Board, provided that the
shareholder(s) and nominee(s) satisfy the requirements in the bylaws. In
December 2016, the Board adopted additional amendments to our bylaws to
enhance our proxy access framework and make it easier for shareholders
to nominate proxy access candidates. For example:

 

  	• 	  	

Apple no longer requires shareholders who nominate a proxy access
candidate to recall loaned shares and hold them through the annual
meeting. Ownership of loaned shares is deemed to continue if the
shareholder(s) has the power to recall the loaned shares on five
business days’ notice.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple increased the availability of proxy access by limiting the
circumstances under which the maximum number of proxy access candidates
is reduced. For example, Apple no longer reduces the number of proxy
access candidates when an incumbent director was nominated through proxy
access in the last two years and is subsequently supported by the Board
for re-election.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Shareholders may now re-nominate a proxy access candidate regardless of
the level of support received at the annual meeting.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has extended the deadline by which nominating shareholders and
proxy access candidates must provide certain information to Apple to ten
business days from five business days.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 13

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

  	• 	  	

Apple has narrowed the scope of a nominating shareholder’s
indemnification obligations to legal and regulatory violations arising
out of a nominating shareholder’s actions or communications with Apple
shareholders or out of information provided by a nominating shareholder
to Apple.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has limited the discretion of the Board to unilaterally interpret
the proxy access provisions.

	 

Biographical Information for Our Director Nominees

The biographies below describe the skills, qualities, attributes, and
experience of the nominees that led the Board and the Nominating
Committee to determine that it is appropriate to nominate these
directors. Each of the eight nominees currently serves on the Board. In
this section (“Directors, Corporate Governance, and Executive
Officers—Directors”), references to particular years refer to the
calendar year.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 14

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*LOGO *

Art Levinson

66 years old

Director since 2000

/Chairman of the Board /

/Audit Committee /

Art Levinson has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Calico, a
company focused on health, aging, and well-being, since September 2013.

Dr. Levinson previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Genentech,
Inc., a medical drug developer, from July 1995 to April 2009, and served
as Genentech’s Chairman from September 1999 to September 2014.

Among other qualifications, Dr. Levinson brings to the Board executive
leadership experience, including his service as a chairman and chief
executive officer of a large international public company, along with
extensive financial expertise and brand marketing experience.

Former Public Company Directorships

Within the Last Five Years

Amyris, Inc.

F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd.

Selected Directorships and Memberships

Board of Directors, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT

Board of Scientific Consultants, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

Industrial Advisory Board, California Institute for Quantitative
Biomedical Research

Advisory Council for the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics

Advisory Council for the Princeton University Department of Molecular
Biology

*LOGO *

Tim Cook

56 years old

Director since 2011

/Chief Executive Officer
     /

 

Tim Cook has been Apple’s Chief Executive Officer since August 2011 and
was previously Apple’s Chief Operating Officer since October 2005.

Mr. Cook joined Apple in March 1998 and served as Executive Vice
President, Worldwide Sales and Operations from 2002 to 2005. From 2000
to 2002, Mr. Cook served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations,
Sales, Service and Support. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. Cook served as Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Operations.

Among other qualifications, Mr. Cook brings to the Board extensive
executive leadership experience in the technology industry, including
the management of worldwide operations, sales, service, and support.

Other Current Public Company Directorships

NIKE, Inc.

Selected Directorships and Memberships

Board of Directors, The National Football Foundation & College Hall of
Fame, Inc.

Board of Trustees, Duke University

Board of Directors, Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights

 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 15

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*LOGO *

James Bell

68 years old

Director since 2015

/Audit Committee
     /

 

James Bell is the retired Executive Vice President, Corporate President
and Chief Financial Officer of The Boeing Company, an aerospace company.

Mr. Bell served as Boeing’s CFO from 2008 to 2012, having previously
served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer,
from 2003 to 2008, and as Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate
Controller from 2000 to 2003. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Bell held a series
of positions with increasing responsibility at Boeing.

Among other qualifications, Mr. Bell brings to the Board financial and
accounting expertise as a former chief financial officer of a large
international public company, experience in strategic planning and
leadership of complex organizations, and a global business perspective
from his service on other boards.

Other Current Public Company Directorships

The Dow Chemical Company

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

CDW Corporation

Selected Directorships and Memberships

Board of Trustees, Rush University Medical Center

LOGO

Al Gore

68 years old

Director since 2003

/Compensation Committee /

/Nominating Committee /

Al Gore has served as Chairman of Generation Investment Management, an
investment management firm, since 2004, and as a partner of Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, a venture capital firm, since 2007.

Mr. Gore is also Chairman of The Climate Reality Project.

Mr. Gore was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives four times, to
the U.S. Senate two times, and served two terms as Vice President of the
United States.

Among other qualifications, Mr. Gore brings to the Board executive
leadership experience, a valuable and different perspective due to his
extensive background in digital communication and technology policy,
politics, and environmental rights, along with experience in asset
management and venture capital.

 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 16

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*LOGO *

Bob Iger

66 years old

Director since 2011

/Compensation Committee /

/Nominating Committee Chair /

Bob Iger has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Walt
Disney Company, a diversified media company, since March 2012.

Prior to that time, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer
of Disney since October 2005, having previously served as President and
Chief Operating Officer since January 2000 and as President of Walt
Disney International and Chairman of the ABC Group from 1999 to 2000.
From 1974 to 1998, Mr. Iger held a series of positions with increasing
responsibility at ABC, Inc. and its predecessor Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

Among other qualifications, Mr. Iger brings to the Board executive
leadership experience, including his service as a chairman and chief
executive officer of a large international public company, along with
extensive financial expertise and experience in international business
and brand marketing.

Other Current Public Company Directorships

The Walt Disney Company

Selected Directorships and Memberships

Board of Directors, National September 11 Memorial & Museum

Vice Chairman, U.S.-China Business Council

Co-Chairman, Partnership for a New American Economy

Member, American Academy of Arts & Sciences

Member, President’s Export Council

Board of Directors, Bloomberg Philanthropies

*LOGO *

Andrea Jung

58 years old

Director since 2008

/Compensation Committee Chair /

/Nominating Committee /

Andrea Jung has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Grameen America LLC, a nonprofit microfinance organization, since April
2014, where she also serves on the Board of Directors.

Ms. Jung previously served as Executive Chairman of Avon Products, Inc.,
a personal care products company, from April 2012 to December 2012, and
as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Avon from September 2001 to
April 2012. Ms. Jung served as Chief Executive Officer of Avon from
November 1999 to April 2012, and served as a member of the Board of
Directors of Avon from January 1998 to December 2012.

Among other qualifications, Ms. Jung brings to the Board executive
leadership experience, including her service as a chairman and chief
executive officer of a large international public company, along with
extensive brand marketing and consumer products experience.

Other Current Public Company Directorships

Daimler AG

General Electric Company

Former Public Company Directorships

Within the Last Five Years

Avon Products, Inc.

 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 17

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*LOGO *

Ron Sugar

68 years old

Director since 2010

/Audit Committee Chair /

 

Ron Sugar is the retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of Northrop Grumman Corporation, a global security company.
Dr. Sugar served in this role from 2003 to 2010 and served as President
and Chief Operating Officer from 2001 to 2003. Previous to Northrop
Grumman, he held executive positions at Litton Industries and TRW Inc.,
where he served as Chief Financial Officer.

Dr. Sugar is a senior advisor to various businesses and organizations,
including Ares Management, LLC, Bain & Company, Temasek Americas
Advisory Panel, the G100 Network, and the World 50.

Among other qualifications, Dr. Sugar brings to the Board executive
leadership experience as a chairman and chief executive officer of a
large international public company, financial expertise as a former
chief financial officer, understanding of advanced technology, and a
global business perspective from his service on other boards.

Other Current Public Company Directorships

Air Lease Corporation

Amgen Inc.

Chevron Corporation

Selected Directorships and Memberships

Member, National Academy of Engineering

Board of Trustees, University of Southern California

Board of Directors, Los Angeles Philharmonic Association

Board of Trustees, Boys and Girls Clubs of America

*LOGO *

Sue Wagner

55 years old

Director since 2014

/Audit Committee /

 

Sue Wagner is a co-founder of BlackRock, Inc., an asset management
company. Ms. Wagner served as BlackRock’s Vice Chairman from January
2006 to July 2012, and also served as a member of BlackRock’s Global
Executive Committee and Global Operating Committee. During her tenure at
BlackRock, Ms. Wagner served as BlackRock’s Chief Operating Officer and
Head of Corporate Strategy, and led the alternative investments and
international client businesses.

Among other qualifications, Ms. Wagner brings to the Board operational
experience, including her service as chief operating officer of a large
international public company, along with extensive financial expertise
and experience in the financial services industry.

Other Current Public Company Directorships

BlackRock, Inc.

Swiss Re

Selected Directorships and Memberships

Board of Directors, Color Genomics, Inc.

Board of Trustees, Wellesley College

Board of Trustees, Hackley School

 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 18

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Corporate Governance

Role of the Board of Directors

Apple’s Board oversees the CEO and other senior management in the
competent and ethical operation of Apple on a day-to-day basis and
assures that the long-term interests of shareholders are being served.
To satisfy the Board’s duties, directors are expected to take a
proactive, focused approach to their positions, and set standards to
ensure that Apple is committed to business success through the
maintenance of high standards of responsibility and ethics.

Apple’s key governance documents, including our Corporate Governance
Guidelines and committee charters, are available at
investor.apple.com/corporate-governance.cfm. The governance structure is
designed to foster principled actions, informed and effective
decision-making, and appropriate monitoring of both compliance and
performance. The Board met four times during 2016, and each member of
the Board attended or participated in 75% or more of the aggregate of
(i) the total number of meetings of the Board held during 2016, and (ii)
the total number of meetings held by each committee of the Board on
which such person served during 2016.

Board Leadership Structure

The Board believes its current leadership structure best serves the
objectives of the Board’s oversight of management, the Board’s ability
to carry out its roles and responsibilities on behalf of Apple’s
shareholders, and Apple’s overall corporate governance. The Board also
believes the separation of the Chairman and CEO roles allows the CEO to
focus his time and energy on operating and managing Apple and leverages
the Chairman’s experience and perspectives. The Board periodically
reviews the leadership structure to determine whether it continues to
best serve Apple and its shareholders.

Board Committees

The Board has a standing Audit and Finance Committee (the “Audit
Committee”), Compensation Committee, and Nominating Committee. The Board
has determined that the Chairs of each committee and all committee
members are independent under applicable rules of The NASDAQ Stock
Market LLC (“NASDAQ”), the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”), and the
SEC for committee memberships. Each Committee operates under written
charters adopted by the Board that are available at
investor.apple.com/corporate-governance.cfm.

/Audit Committee /

The Audit Committee assists the Board in oversight and monitoring of:

 

  	• 	  	

Apple’s financial statements and other financial information provided by
Apple to its shareholders and others;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Compliance with legal, regulatory, and public disclosure requirements;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

The independent auditors, including their qualifications and independence;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple’s system of internal controls, including the internal audit function;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Treasury and finance matters;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Enterprise risk management, privacy, and data security; and

	 

 

  	• 	  	

The auditing, accounting, and financial reporting process generally.

	 

The Audit Committee also appoints Apple’s independent registered public
accounting firm and reviews the services performed by the firm. The
Audit Committee met nine times during 2016.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 19

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

/Compensation Committee /

The Compensation Committee reviews and approves the compensation
arrangements for Apple’s executive officers, including the CEO,
administers Apple’s equity compensation plans, and reviews the Board’s
compensation. The Compensation Committee’s authority to grant equity
awards may not be delegated to Apple’s management or others. For a
description of the Compensation Committee’s processes and procedures,
including the roles of the independent compensation consultant and
Apple’s executive officers in support of the Compensation Committee’s
decision-making process, see the section entitled “Compensation
Discussion and Analysis” below. The Compensation Committee met seven
times during 2016.

/Nominating Committee /

The Nominating Committee assists the Board in identifying qualified
individuals to become directors, makes recommendations to the Board
concerning the size, structure, and composition of the Board and its
committees, monitors the process to assess the Board’s effectiveness,
and oversees and makes recommendations regarding corporate governance
matters, including implementing Apple’s Corporate Governance Guidelines.
The Nominating Committee met four times during 2016.

The Nominating Committee has recommended to the full Board each of the
nominees named in this Proxy Statement for election to the Board.

Board Oversight of Risk Management

The Board believes that evaluating the executive team’s management of
the various risks confronting Apple is one of its most important areas
of oversight. In carrying out this critical responsibility, the Board
has designated the Audit Committee with primary responsibility for
overseeing enterprise risk management. In accordance with this
responsibility, the Audit Committee monitors Apple’s significant
business risks, including financial, operational, privacy, data
security, business continuity, legal and regulatory, and reputational
exposures, and reviews the steps management has taken to monitor and
control these exposures. With respect to privacy and data security, the
Audit Committee reviews reports from Apple’s Vice President of Corporate
Information Security, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, and
Vice President of Internal Audit, including updates on risk management,
Apple’s privacy program, and relevant legislative, regulatory, and
technical developments.

The Audit Committee is assisted by a Risk Oversight Committee consisting
of key members of management, including Apple’s Chief Financial Officer
and General Counsel. The Risk Oversight Committee reports regularly to
the Audit Committee, which reports regularly to the Board.

While the Audit Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing
enterprise risk management, the other Board committees also consider
risks within their areas of responsibility and apprise the Board of
significant risks and management’s response to those risks. For example,
the Nominating Committee reviews legal and regulatory compliance risks
as they relate to corporate governance structure and processes, and the
Compensation Committee reviews risks related to compensation matters.
While the Board and its committees oversee risk management strategy,
management is responsible for implementing and supervising day-to-day
risk management processes and reporting to the Board and its committees
on such matters.

In establishing and reviewing Apple’s executive compensation program,
the Compensation Committee considers whether the program encourages
unnecessary or excessive risk-taking and has concluded that it does not.
Executives’ base salaries are fixed in amount and thus do not encourage
risk-taking. Annual cash incentives are capped and payouts are formulaic
and tied to specific company financial performance metrics. The majority
of compensation provided to the executive officers is in the form of
time-based and performance-based equity awards that vest over several
years and help further align executives’ interests with those of Apple’s
shareholders. The Compensation Committee believes that these awards do
not encourage unnecessary or excessive risk-taking because the ultimate
value of the awards is tied to Apple’s stock price

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 20

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

performance over several years and because awards are subject to regular
vesting schedules to help ensure that a significant component of
executive compensation is tied to long-term shareholder value creation.

The Compensation Committee has also reviewed Apple’s compensation
programs for employees generally and has concluded these programs do not
create risks that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse
effect on Apple. The Compensation Committee believes that Apple’s annual
cash and long-term equity awards provide an effective and appropriate
mix of incentives to help ensure Apple’s performance is focused on
long-term shareholder value creation and do not encourage short-term
risk taking at the expense of long-term results.

Audit Committee Financial Experts

The Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee
qualifies as an “audit committee financial expert” as defined under
applicable SEC rules and also meets the additional criteria for
independence of audit committee members set forth in Rule 10A-3(b)(1)
under the Exchange Act.

Code of Ethics

Apple has a code of ethics, “Business Conduct: The way we do business
worldwide,” that applies to all employees, including Apple’s principal
executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting
officer, to the Board, and to independent contractors, consultants, and
others who do business with Apple. The code is available at
investor.apple.com/corporate-governance.cfm. Apple intends to disclose
any changes in this code or waivers from this code that apply to Apple’s
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, or principal
accounting officer by posting such information on the same website or by
filing with the SEC a Current Report on Form 8-K, in each case if such
disclosure is required by rules of the SEC or NASDAQ.

Review, Approval, or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons

The Board has adopted a written policy for approval of transactions
between Apple and its directors, director nominees, executive officers,
greater than 5% beneficial owners, and each of their respective
immediate family members, where the amount involved in the transaction
exceeds or is expected to exceed $120,000 in a single calendar year and
the party to the transaction has or will have a direct or indirect
interest. A copy of this policy is available at
investor.apple.com/corporate-governance.cfm. The policy provides that
the Audit Committee reviews transactions subject to the policy and
determines whether or not to approve or ratify those transactions. In
addition, the Audit Committee has delegated authority to the Chair of
the Audit Committee to pre-approve or ratify transactions under certain
circumstances. In reviewing transactions subject to the policy, the
Audit Committee, or the Chair of the Audit Committee, as applicable,
considers among other factors it deems appropriate:

 

  	• 	  	

The related person’s interest in the transaction;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

The approximate dollar value of the amount involved in the transaction;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

The approximate dollar value of the amount of the related person’s
interest in the transaction without regard to the amount of any profit
or loss;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Whether the transaction was undertaken in the ordinary course of
business of Apple;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Whether the transaction with the related person is proposed to be, or
was, entered into on terms no less favorable to Apple than terms that
could have been reached with an unrelated third-party;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

The purpose of, and the potential benefits to Apple of, the transaction;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Required public disclosure, if any; and

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 21

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

  	• 	  	

Any other information regarding the transaction or the related person in
the context of the proposed transaction that would be material to
investors in light of the circumstances of the particular transaction.

	 

The Audit Committee has considered and adopted the following standing
pre-approvals under the policy for transactions with related persons:

 

  	• 	  	

Employment as an executive officer of Apple, if the related compensation
is approved (or recommended to the Board for approval) by the
Compensation Committee;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Any compensation paid to a director if the compensation is consistent
with Apple’s director compensation policies and is required to be
reported in Apple’s proxy statement under Item 402 of SEC Regulation S-K;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Any transaction with another company at which a related person’s only
relationship is as an employee (other than an executive officer or
director) or beneficial owner of less than 10% of that company’s equity,
if the aggregate amount involved does not exceed the greater of $1
million, or 2% of that company’s total annual revenue;

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Any charitable contribution, grant, or endowment by Apple to a
charitable organization, foundation, or university at which a related
person’s only relationship is as an employee (other than an executive
officer or director), if the aggregate amount involved does not exceed
the greater of $1 million, or 2% of the charitable organization’s total
annual receipts; and

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Any transaction where the related person’s interest arises solely from
the ownership of Apple’s common stock and all holders of Apple’s common
stock received the same benefit on a pro-rata basis, such as dividends.

	 

A summary of new transactions covered by the standing pre-approvals, or
approved or ratified by the Chair of the Audit Committee, if any, is
provided to the Audit Committee for its review at each regularly
scheduled Audit Committee meeting.

Transactions with Related Persons

Mr. Iger is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Disney. In the
ordinary course of business, Apple enters into commercial dealings with
Disney that we consider arms-length, including sales arrangements,
Internet Services content licensing agreements, and similar
arrangements. Apple does not believe that Mr. Iger has a material direct
or indirect interest in any of such commercial dealings.

The Board has determined that all Board members, other than Mr. Cook,
are independent under applicable NASDAQ, NYSE, and SEC rules. In making
these determinations, the Board considered the types and amounts of the
commercial dealings between Apple and the companies and organizations
with which the directors are affiliated.

Attendance of Directors at Annual Meetings of Shareholders

Apple expects all of its directors to attend the Annual Meeting. All of
Apple’s directors who were standing for re-election in 2016 attended the
2016 annual meeting of shareholders with the exception of Mr. Bell who
was unable to attend for personal reasons.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

Ms. Jung, Mr. Gore, Mr. Iger, and Dr. Levinson were members of the
Compensation Committee during 2016. Mr. Iger was appointed to the
Compensation Committee in place of Dr. Levinson in December 2015. None
of the members of the Compensation Committee is or has been an executive
officer of Apple, nor did any of them have any relationships requiring
disclosure by Apple under Item 404 of SEC Regulation S-K. None of
Apple’s executive officers served as a director or a member of a
compensation committee (or other committee serving an equivalent
function) of any other entity, an executive officer of which served as a
director of Apple or member of the Compensation Committee during 2016.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 22

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Communications with the Board

Any matter intended for the Board, or for any individual member of the
Board, should be directed to Apple’s Secretary at 1 Infinite Loop, MS:
301-4GC, Cupertino, California 95014, with a request to forward the
communication to the intended recipient. In general, any shareholder
communication delivered to Apple for forwarding to Board members will be
forwarded in accordance with the shareholder’s instructions. However,
Apple reserves the right not to forward to Board members any abusive,
threatening, or otherwise inappropriate materials. Information regarding
the submission of comments or complaints relating to Apple’s accounting,
internal accounting controls, or auditing matters is available at
investor.apple.com/corporate-governance.cfm.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 23

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Compensation of Directors

Members of the Board who are not also Apple employees (“Non-Employee
Directors”) receive compensation for their service. Mr. Cook, our CEO,
does not receive any compensation for his service as a member of the
Board. The Compensation Committee annually reviews the total
compensation of our Non-Employee Directors and each element of our
Non-Employee Director compensation program. As part of this process, the
Compensation Committee evaluates market data provided by its independent
compensation consulting firm, Pay Governance LLC, and makes a
recommendation to the Board. The Board determines the form and amount of
director compensation after reviewing the Compensation Committee’s
recommendation.

*Cash Retainers.*Non-Employee Directors receive an annual cash retainer
of $100,000. In 2016, the Chairman of the Board, Dr. Levinson, received
an additional cash retainer of $200,000; the Chair of the Audit
Committee, Dr. Sugar, received an additional cash retainer of $35,000;
the Chair of the Compensation Committee, Ms. Jung, received an
additional cash retainer of $30,000; and the Chair of the Nominating
Committee, Mr. Iger, received an additional cash retainer of $25,000.
All retainers are paid in quarterly installments.

*Equity-Based Awards.*A substantial portion of each Non-Employee
Director’s annual retainer is in the form of equity. Under Apple’s 1997
Director Stock Plan (the “Director Plan”), Non-Employee Directors are
granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on the date of each annual
meeting of shareholders (each, an “Annual Director Award”). All Annual
Director Awards vest on February 1 of the following year, subject to
continued service on the Board through the vesting date. For 2016, the
number of RSUs subject to each Annual Director Award was determined by
dividing $250,000 by the per share closing price of Apple’s common stock
on the date of grant and rounding to the nearest whole share.

A Non-Employee Director who is newly appointed to the Board other than
in connection with an annual meeting of shareholders will receive a
grant of RSUs upon appointment (an “Initial Director Award”), except
that a Non-Employee Director who joins the Board after February 1 of a
particular year and prior to the annual meeting for that year will not
receive an Initial Director Award. The number of RSUs subject to each
Initial Director Award is determined in the same manner as described
above for Annual Director Awards, but the grant date fair value of the
award is pro-rated based on the portion of the year that has passed
since the last annual meeting. Initial Director Awards are scheduled to
vest on the next February 1 following the award.

Non-Employee Directors do not have the right to vote or dispose of the
RSUs subject to these awards. If Apple pays an ordinary cash dividend on
its common stock, each RSU award granted under the Director Plan will be
credited with an amount equal to the per share cash dividend paid by
Apple, multiplied by the total number of RSUs subject to the award that
are outstanding immediately prior to the record date for such dividend.
The amounts that are credited to each award are referred to as “dividend
equivalents.” Any dividend equivalents credited to an award granted
under the Director Plan will be subject to the same vesting, payment,
and other terms and conditions as the unvested RSUs to which the
dividend equivalents relate. The crediting of dividend equivalents is
meant to treat the RSU award holders consistently with shareholders.

*Equipment Program.*Apple has an equipment program for the Board under
which each Non-Employee Director is eligible to receive, upon request
and free of charge, one of each new product introduced by Apple, and is
eligible to purchase additional equipment at a discount.

Non-Employee Directors do not receive any other compensation for serving
on any committee or attending Board or committee meetings.

*Stock Ownership Guidelines.*Apple has stock ownership guidelines for
our CEO, executive officers, and Non-Employee Directors. Under the
guidelines, Non-Employee Directors are expected to own shares of Apple
common stock that have a value equal to five times their annual cash
retainer for serving as a director. Shares may be owned directly by the
individual, owned jointly with or separately by the individual’s spouse,
or held in trust for the benefit of the individual, the individual’s

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 24

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

spouse or children. Each Non-Employee Director is required to satisfy
the stock ownership guideline by November 12, 2017, or within five years
after first becoming subject to the guidelines. Other than Mr. Bell, who
joined the Board in October 2015, each Non-Employee Director has already
satisfied the stock ownership guidelines.

Director Compensation—2016

The following table shows information regarding the compensation earned
or paid during 2016 to Non-Employee Directors who served on the Board
during the year. The compensation paid to Mr. Cook is shown under
“Executive Compensation” in the table entitled “Summary Compensation
Table—2016, 2015, and 2014” and the related tables. Mr. Cook does not
receive any compensation for his service as a member of the Board.

 

																
*Name* 	     	

*Fees Earned or*

*Paid in Cash*

($)

	  	     	

*Stock Awards*

($)^(1)

	  	     	

*All Other*

*Compensation*

($)^(2)

	  	     	

*Total*

($)

	 
				
James Bell^(3) 	     	  	100,000 	   	     	  	360,375 	   	     	 
5,176 	   	     	  	465,551 	  
				
Al Gore 	     	  	100,000 	   	     	  	250,028 	   	     	  	2,464
   	     	  	352,492 	  
				
Bob Iger 	     	  	125,000 	   	     	  	250,028 	   	     	  	2,261
   	     	  	377,289 	  
				
Andrea Jung 	     	  	130,000 	   	     	  	250,028 	   	     	 
2,163 	   	     	  	382,191 	  
				
Art Levinson 	     	  	300,000 	   	     	  	250,028 	   	     	 
2,351 	   	     	  	552,379 	  
				
Ron Sugar 	     	  	135,000 	   	     	  	250,028 	   	     	 
5,494 	   	     	  	390,522 	  
				
Sue Wagner 	     	  	100,000 	   	     	  	250,028 	   	     	 
1,647 	   	     	  	351,675 	  

 

  	(1) 	

In accordance with SEC rules, the amounts shown reflect the aggregate
grant date fair value of stock awards granted to Non-Employee Directors
during 2016, computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 (“FASB ASC 718”). The
grant date fair value for RSUs is measured based on the closing fair
market value of Apple’s common stock on the date of grant. See Note
1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies found in Part II, Item 8,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

	 

 

  	   	

Each Non-Employee Director received an automatic Annual Director Award
of 2,580 RSUs on February 26, 2016, and the grant date fair value for
each grant was $250,028. Mr. Bell also received an automatic Initial
Director Award of 1,007 RSUs on October 1, 2015, upon joining the Board.
The Initial Director Award to Mr. Bell had a grant date fair value of
$110,347, resulting in a total grant date fair value of RSUs to Mr. Bell
during 2016 of $360,375.

	 

 

  	   	

As of September 24, 2016, each Non-Employee Director held 2,580 shares
subject to outstanding RSUs. In addition, Mr. Gore had 275,779 shares
subject to outstanding and unexercised options, Ms. Jung had 109,590
shares subject to outstanding and unexercised options, and Mr. Levinson
had 247,394 shares subject to outstanding and unexercised options.

	 

 

  	(2) 	

The amounts shown reflect one or more products received under Apple’s
Board of Directors equipment program.

	 

 

  	(3) 	

Mr. Bell joined the Board on October 1, 2015.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 25

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Executive Officers

Biographical information for Apple’s executive officers, other than Mr.
Cook, is listed below. Biographical information for Mr. Cook, who is
both a director and an executive officer, can be found in the section
entitled “Directors.” In this section (“Directors, Corporate Governance,
and Executive Officers—Executive Officers”), references to particular
years refer to the calendar year.

*Angela Ahrendts, Senior Vice President, Retail,*56, joined Apple and
assumed her current position in May 2014. Prior to joining Apple, Ms.
Ahrendts served as director and Chief Executive Officer of Burberry plc,
a luxury fashion company, from July 2006. Ms. Ahrendts also previously
served as Executive Vice President at Liz Claiborne Inc., and as
President of Donna Karan International. Ms. Ahrendts is also a member of
the United Kingdom’s Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Council.

*Eddy Cue, Senior Vice President, Internet Software and Services,*52,
joined Apple in January 1989 and assumed his current position in
September 2011. Mr. Cue’s previous positions with Apple include Vice
President of Internet Services and Senior Director of iTunes Operations.
Mr. Cue has also served as a director of Ferrari S.p.A., a luxury sports
car company, since November 2012.

*Craig Federighi, Senior Vice President, Software Engineering,*47,
rejoined Apple in April 2009 and assumed his current position in August
2012. Prior to rejoining Apple, Mr. Federighi held several roles at
Ariba, Inc., an enterprise software company, including Chief Technology
Officer and Vice President of Internet Services. Prior to that, Mr.
Federighi worked at NeXT and at Apple upon the acquisition of NeXT. Mr.
Federighi’s previous positions with Apple include Vice President of Mac
OS Engineering and Director of Engineering.

*Luca Maestri, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,*53,
joined Apple in March 2013 and assumed his current position in May 2014.
Prior to assuming his current position, Mr. Maestri served as Apple’s
Vice President and Corporate Controller. Prior to joining Apple, Mr.
Maestri was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Xerox
Corporation, a business services and technology company, from February
2011 to February 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Maestri was Chief Financial
Officer at Nokia Siemens Networks from October 2008 to February 2011,
and he previously had a 20-year career with General Motors Corporation,
where he served as Chief Financial Officer of GM Europe and GM Brazil,
and held several executive positions with General Motors Corporation in
Europe and Asia Pacific. Mr. Maestri served as a director of The
Principal Financial Group from February 2012 to May 2015.

*Dan Riccio, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering,*54, joined
Apple in June 1998 and assumed his current position in August 2012. Mr.
Riccio’s previous positions with Apple include Vice President of Product
Design and Vice President of iPad Hardware Engineering. Prior to joining
Apple, Mr. Riccio worked at Compaq Computer Corporation as Senior
Manager of Mechanical Engineering.

*Phil Schiller, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing,*56, rejoined
Apple in April 1997 and assumed his current position in February 2002.
Prior to rejoining Apple, Mr. Schiller was Vice President of Product
Marketing at Macromedia, Inc. from December 1995 to March 1997 and
Director of Product Marketing at FirePower Systems, Inc. from 1993 to
December 1995. Prior to that, Mr. Schiller spent six years at Apple in
various marketing positions. Mr. Schiller has also served as a director
of Illumina, Inc., a genetics company, since July 2016.

*Bruce Sewell, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,*58,
joined Apple and assumed his current position in September 2009. Prior
to joining Apple, Mr. Sewell served as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel of Intel Corporation from 2005. Mr. Sewell also served as
Intel’s Vice President, General Counsel from 2004 to 2005 and Vice
President of Legal and Government Affairs, Deputy General Counsel from
2001 to 2004. Prior to joining Intel in 1995, Mr. Sewell was a partner
in the law firm of Brown and Bain PC. Mr. Sewell has also served as a
director of Vail Resorts Management Company, an operator of mountain
resorts, since January 2013.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 26

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*Johny Srouji, Senior Vice President, Hardware Technologies,*52, joined
Apple in 2008 and assumed his current position in December 2015. Mr.
Srouji’s previous positions with Apple include Vice President, Hardware
Technologies, and Vice President, VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration).
Prior to joining Apple, Mr. Srouji worked in various engineering roles
at IBM and Intel.

*Jeff Williams, Chief Operating Officer,*53, joined Apple in June 1998
and assumed his current position in December 2015. Mr. Williams’s
previous positions with Apple include Senior Vice President, Operations;
Head of Worldwide Procurement; and Vice President of Operations. Prior
to joining Apple, Mr. Williams worked in a number of operations and
engineering roles at IBM from 1985 to 1998.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 27

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Executive Compensation

 

Compensation Committee Report

The Compensation Committee has reviewed and discussed with management
the disclosures contained in the following “Compensation Discussion and
Analysis.” Based on this review and discussion, the Compensation
Committee recommended to the Board that the section entitled
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis” be included in this Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting.

Members of the Compensation Committee

Andrea Jung (Chair) | Al Gore | Bob Iger

Compensation Discussion and Analysis

Apple had another year of strong financial results in 2016. Net sales
were $215.6 billion and operating income was $60.0 billion. Net sales of
our Services business grew 22% year-over-year and App Store revenue was
the highest ever. The compensation paid to our named executive officers
for 2016 appropriately reflects and rewards this performance.

In this Compensation Discussion and Analysis, we discuss the 2016
compensation program for our named executive officers and the guiding
principles and practices upon which it is based. Our named executive
officers for 2016 were:

 

		
	
Tim Cook 	   	

Chief Executive Officer

	
Luca Maestri 	   	

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

	
Angela Ahrendts 	   	

Senior Vice President, Retail

	
Eddy Cue 	   	

Senior Vice President, Internet Software and Services

	
Dan Riccio 	   	

Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering

	
Bruce Sewell 	   	

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Cue, Mr. Riccio, and Mr. Sewell had the same total compensation
according to SEC reporting rules, and as a result, we are reporting six
named executive officers for 2016.

Guiding Principles and Compensation Practices

Our executive compensation program is designed to attract, motivate, and
retain a talented, entrepreneurial, and creative team of executives who
will provide leadership for Apple’s success in dynamic and competitive
markets. We have a pay-for-performance philosophy for executive
compensation based on the following principles:

*Team-Based Approach.*Our executive officers are expected to operate as
a high-performing team, and accordingly, we apply a team-based approach
to our executive compensation program with internal pay equity as a
primary consideration. We believe that generally awarding the same base
salary, annual cash incentive, and long-term equity awards to each of
our executive officers, other than the CEO, successfully supports this
goal.

*Performance Expectations.*We have clear performance expectations of our
executive team, and the design of our executive compensation program
reflects these expectations. First, each executive officer must
demonstrate exceptional personal

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

performance in order to remain part of the executive team. We believe
that individuals who underperform should either be removed from the
executive team with their compensation adjusted accordingly, or be
dismissed from Apple. Second, each executive officer must contribute to
Apple’s overall success rather than focus solely on specific objectives
within his or her primary area of responsibility.

*Emphasis on Long-Term Equity Incentives.*Our executive compensation
program emphasizes long-term shareholder value creation by using both
time-based and performance-based RSUs to deliver long-term compensation
incentives. The Compensation Committee believes that this is the most
effective way to attract and retain a talented executive team and align
executives’ interests with those of shareholders. As a result, our
executive compensation program is weighted considerably toward long-term
equity awards rather than cash compensation and our executives hold
significant unvested RSUs at any particular time. This practice is
intended to create a substantial retention incentive, encourage our
executives to focus on Apple’s long-term success, and align with the
long-term interests of our shareholders.

*Compensation Practices.* We follow sound compensation practices to
support our guiding principles.

 

				
What We Do 	  	  	   	What We Don’t Do

 

*Independent Compensation Consultant*– Our Compensation Committee has
directly retained an independent compensation consultant, which performs
no services for Apple other than services for the Compensation Committee.

 

*Risk Management*– We prohibit short sales, transactions in derivatives
of Apple securities, including hedging transactions, and pledging of
shares by all executive officers. The Compensation Committee also
conducts an annual compensation risk assessment.

 

*Stock Ownership Guidelines*– We have robust stock ownership guidelines
for our executive officers.

 

*Equity Clawback*– Our RSU agreements have a recoupment provision
requiring repayment to Apple of any shares or other amount that may be
paid in respect of RSUs in the event of certain acts of misconduct.

 

*Performance-Based, Long-Term Equity*– We emphasize long-term equity
awards with a substantial performance-based component in our pay mix.

 

*Vesting and Performance Conditions on Dividend Equivalents*– We apply
the same vesting restrictions and performance conditions on dividend
equivalents as on the underlying RSUs.

 

*At-Will Employment*– We employ our executive officers at will.

	  	  	   	

 

*Change in Control Payments*– We do not offer change in control payments
or gross-ups of related excise taxes.

 

*Special Perquisites*– We do not provide executive perquisites that are
not available to other employees generally.

 

*Retirement Vesting*– We do not include retirement acceleration
provisions in equity awards.

 

*Re-Pricing*– We do not allow re-pricing of stock options without
shareholder approval.

 

*Pension or Other Special Benefits*– We do not provide pensions or
supplemental executive retirement, health, or insurance benefits.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Discretion and Judgment of the Compensation Committee

The Compensation Committee, consisting entirely of independent
directors, reviews and approves the compensation of Apple’s executive
officers and acts as the administering committee for Apple’s equity
compensation plans.

Each year, the Compensation Committee conducts an evaluation of Apple’s
executive compensation program to determine if any changes would be
appropriate. In making these determinations, the Compensation Committee
may consult with its independent compensation consultant and management,
as described below; however, the Compensation Committee uses its own
judgment in making final decisions regarding the compensation paid to
our executive officers.

*The Role of the Compensation Consultant.*The Compensation Committee
selects and retains the services of its own independent compensation
consultant and annually reviews the performance of the selected
consultant. As part of the review process, the Compensation Committee
considers the independence of the consultant in accordance with SEC and
NASDAQ rules.

Since 2014, the Compensation Committee has engaged the services of Pay
Governance, an independent compensation consulting firm. During 2016,
Pay Governance provided no services to Apple other than services for the
Compensation Committee, and worked with Apple’s management, as directed
by the Compensation Committee, only on matters for which the
Compensation Committee is responsible.

At the Compensation Committee’s request, Pay Governance regularly
attends Compensation Committee meetings. Pay Governance also
communicates with the Chair of the Compensation Committee outside
committee meetings regarding matters related to the Compensation
Committee’s responsibilities. In 2016, the Compensation Committee
generally sought input from Pay Governance on a range of external market
factors, including evolving compensation trends, appropriate peer
companies, and market data. Pay Governance also provided general
observations about Apple’s compensation programs and management
recommendations regarding the amount and form of compensation for our
executive officers.

*The Role of the Chief Executive Officer.*At the Compensation
Committee’s request, Mr. Cook provides input regarding the performance
and appropriate compensation of the other executive officers. The
Compensation Committee considers Mr. Cook’s evaluation of the other
executive officers because of his direct knowledge of each executive
officer’s performance and contributions. Mr. Cook is not present during
voting or deliberations by the Compensation Committee regarding his own
compensation.

*The Role of Peer Companies and Benchmarking.*The Compensation Committee
reviews peer group composition each year. With the assistance of Pay
Governance, the Compensation Committee identified groups of companies to
serve as market reference points for compensation comparison purposes
for 2016. A primary peer group was developed for reference consisting of
U.S.-based, stand-alone, publicly traded companies in the technology,
media, and internet services industries that, in the Compensation
Committee’s view, compete with Apple for talent. A secondary peer group
of premier companies that have iconic brands or are industry or category
leaders, rely on significant R&D and innovation for growth, and require
highly-skilled human capital was also considered as an additional
reference set for the Compensation Committee. The companies in each peer
group are listed below. Unless otherwise specified, references in this
Compensation Discussion and Analysis to peer companies include both the
primary and the secondary peer group companies.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 30

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

In June 2015, the Compensation Committee selected the following
companies for the 2016 primary peer group:

 

						
  	  	  	 
Amazon.com 	   	

Disney

	   	

IBM

	  	

Time Warner Cable

  			 
AT&T 	   	

eBay

	   	

Intel

	  	

Twenty-First Century Fox

  			 
CBS 	   	

EMC

	   	

Microsoft

	  	

Verizon

  			 
Cisco Systems 	   	

Facebook

	   	

Oracle

	  	

Viacom

  			 
Comcast 	   	

Google (now Alphabet)

	   	

Qualcomm

	  	 
  			 
DIRECTV 	   	

Hewlett-Packard

	   	

Time Warner

	  	 

The threshold revenue and market capitalization requirements for a
company to be considered for the primary peer group for 2016 were $15
billion and $35 billion, respectively. In addition, although each was
slightly below the thresholds, the Compensation Committee decided to
retain Viacom and CBS in the primary peer group for consistency with the
2015 primary peer group. The Compensation Committee also decided to add
Facebook to the primary peer group based on market capitalization,
revenue similar to other companies in the primary peer group, and the
fact that it competes with Apple for talent. Following the spinoff of
Hewlett Packard Enterprise in November 2015, the Compensation Committee
continued to include HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard) and Hewlett
Packard Enterprises in the 2016 primary peer group.

Based on the revenue and market capitalization criteria described above,
Apple continues to be significantly larger than the companies selected
for the 2016 primary peer group, with 2016 revenue of $215.6 billion and
market capitalization of $601.4 billion as of the end of 2016.

 

 

LOGO

In the table above, revenue for primary peer group companies is the
amount reported by each company in its most recently filed annual report
as of the Record Date, and market capitalization for primary peer group
companies is the amount provided by Bloomberg L.P. as of September 23,
2016, the last trading day of Apple’s fiscal year. The table includes
Alphabet, HP Inc., and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. The table does not
include DIRECTV, EMC, or Time Warner Cable, which either merged with or
were acquired by another company before September 23, 2016.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 31

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

In June 2015, the Compensation Committee selected the following
companies for the 2016 secondary peer group:

 

		
  	 
3M 	   	

Johnson & Johnson

  	 
American Express 	   	

Nike

  	 
Boeing 	   	

PepsiCo

  	 
Coca-Cola 	   	

Procter & Gamble

  	 
General Electric 	   	 

The Compensation Committee reviews compensation practices and program
design at peer companies to inform its decision-making process so it can
set total compensation levels that it believes are commensurate with
Apple’s scope and performance. The Compensation Committee, however, does
not set compensation components to meet specific benchmarks as compared
to peer companies, such as targeting salaries at a specific market
percentile. The Compensation Committee believes that over-reliance on
benchmarking can result in compensation that is unrelated to the value
delivered by our executive officers because compensation benchmarking
does not take into account the specific performance of the executive
officers or the relative size and performance of Apple. The Compensation
Committee’s executive compensation determinations are subjective and the
result of the Compensation Committee’s business judgment, which is
informed by the experiences of the members of the Compensation Committee
as well as input from, and peer group data provided by, the Compensation
Committee’s independent compensation consultant.

*Shareholder Feedback.*We value the feedback provided by our
shareholders and have discussions with many of them on an ongoing basis
regarding various corporate governance topics, including executive
compensation. Shareholders are also provided the opportunity to cast an
annual advisory vote on executive compensation. At Apple’s 2016 annual
meeting of shareholders, shareholders indicated their support for the
compensation of our named executive officers, with approximately 95% of
the votes cast on the say-on-pay proposal voted for the proposal. The
design of the 2016 executive compensation program follows the same
design as 2015. However, for 2017, the Compensation Committee has
continued to evolve our executive compensation program by changing the
allocation of equity awards to our executive officers from 60%
time-based and 40% performance-based RSUs to 50% time-based and 50%
performance-based RSUs, thereby placing an even greater emphasis on
performance-based equity awards for our executive officers.

The Compensation Committee will continue to consider shareholder
feedback and the results of say-on-pay votes when making future
compensation decisions.

2016 Named Executive Officer Compensation

Our executive compensation program is designed to be simple, effective,
and link pay to performance, while reflecting the size, scope, and
success of Apple’s business, as well as the responsibilities of our
executive officers. It incorporates elements that create shareholder
value by driving financial performance, retaining a high-performing and
talented executive team, and aligning the interests of the executive
team with the interests of shareholders. The main elements of the
executive compensation program are:

 

  	• 	  	

Base salary

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Annual cash incentive

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Long-term equity incentives

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 32

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

The chart below shows target dollar values for the main elements of our
named executive officers’ 2016 compensation.

 

		

LOGO

 

	   	Tim Cook has not received an equity award since 2011
LOGO

Cash Compensation Elements and Awards

*Base Salary.*Base salary is a customary, fixed element of compensation
intended to attract and retain executives. The Compensation Committee
considers market data provided by its independent compensation
consultant, internal pay equity among the executive officers, and
Apple’s financial results and market capitalization relative to the peer
companies when setting base salaries. Taking these factors into
consideration and in recognition of his individual performance and
remarkable leadership, Mr. Cook’s base salary was increased to $3
million at the beginning of 2016. The base salary for each of our named
executive officers, other than Mr. Cook, remained unchanged at $1
million for 2016.

*Annual Cash Incentive.*The Compensation Committee approves, on an
annual basis, a performance-based cash incentive opportunity for our
executive officers based on the achievement of annual financial
performance goals. For 2016, each of our named executive officers had a
threshold annual cash incentive opportunity of 100% of base salary, a
target annual cash incentive opportunity of 200% of base salary, and a
maximum annual cash incentive opportunity of 400% of base salary.

Net sales and operating income, as determined in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, were chosen as the performance
measures for the 2016 annual cash incentive opportunity because they
reflect commonly recognized measures of overall company performance and
are drivers of shareholder value creation. Payouts of the annual cash
incentive are determined based on an equal weighting for the net sales
and operating income measures. There is no payout for a particular
performance measure unless the threshold performance goal is achieved
with respect to that measure. Payouts are calculated based on the
performance level achieved for each performance measure for 2016 and are
linearly interpolated for achievement between the threshold, target, and
maximum goals. The Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, reduce
(but not increase) the actual payout of any individual’s annual cash
incentive based on Apple’s performance and the Compensation Committee’s
subjective assessment of the named executive officer’s overall performance.

The Compensation Committee established performance goals in the first
quarter of 2016, taking into consideration Apple’s 2015 financial
results, macroeconomic factors, the payout opportunities based on
attainment of performance goals at threshold, target, and maximum
levels, and pay-for-performance alignment.

2016 Goals and Results

 

 

LOGO

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 33

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

As shown in the table above, our 2016 net sales of $215.6 billion and
operating income of $60.0 billion were 96.4% and 99.5% of the respective
target goals set by the Compensation Committee. This performance
resulted in a combined payout at 89.5% of target for each named
executive officer. Overall, our 2016 performance with respect to net
sales and operating income was 7.7% and 15.7% below our record-breaking
2015 levels; however, the 2016 payouts to our named executive officers
were significantly less than the annual cash incentive payouts for 2015,
reflecting strong pay-for-performance alignment. The Compensation
Committee determined that no downward adjustments to the payouts would
be made, based on Apple’s 2016 performance and the individual
contributions of our named executive officers.

Long-Term Equity Elements and Awards

Our executive compensation program emphasizes long-term shareholder
value creation through the use of equity awards in the form of RSUs to
deliver long-term compensation incentives. The Compensation Committee
has discretion to approve awards with different vesting conditions as it
deems necessary to meet the objectives of our executive compensation
program.

*Performance-Based RSUs.*The number of performance-based RSUs granted to
our named executive officers that vest depends on Apple’s total
shareholder return relative to the other companies in the S&P 500 for
the performance period (“Relative TSR”). The Compensation Committee
chose Relative TSR as a straightforward and objective metric for Apple’s
shareholders to evaluate our performance against the performance of
other companies and to align the interests of our named executive
officers with the interests of shareholders.

We measure Relative TSR for a specified period of time based on the
change in each company’s stock price during that period, taking into
account any dividends paid during that period, which are assumed to be
reinvested in the stock. The change in value from the beginning to the
end of the period is divided by the beginning value to determine total
shareholder return. Apple’s total shareholder return is compared to the
total shareholder return of other companies, ranked by percentile, to
determine the number of performance-based RSUs that vest for each
performance period. An averaging period is used to determine the
beginning and ending stock price values used to calculate Relative TSR
for the performance period. This mitigates the impact on the long-term
Relative TSR results of one-day or short-term stock price fluctuations
at the beginning or end of the performance period. The beginning stock
price value is calculated using each company’s average closing stock
price for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the
beginning of the performance period. The ending stock price value is
calculated using each company’s average closing price for the 20
consecutive trading days ending on the last day of the performance period.

*Time-Based RSUs.*Equity awards with time-based vesting align the
interests of our executives with the interests of our shareholders and
promote the stability and retention of a strong executive team over the
longer term. Vesting schedules for time-based awards generally require
continuous service over multiple years, as described below.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 34

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Mr. Cook’s Long-Term Equity Award

Mr. Cook last received an equity award when he was promoted to Chief
Executive Officer in 2011 (the “2011 RSU Award”). At Mr. Cook’s request,
the 2011 RSU Award was modified in 2013 to put a portion of the award at
risk based on Apple’s Relative TSR performance. The performance
condition requires Apple to outperform two-thirds of the comparative
companies in the S&P 500 for each performance period in order for 100%
of the performance-based RSUs allocated to that period to vest. The 2011
RSU Award only has downside risk to Mr. Cook. It does not contain an
upside vesting opportunity, and there is no interpolation for results
between the Relative TSR percentile levels set forth below.

 

		
*Relative TSR Percentile v.
S&P 500 Companies* 	  	*Performance-Based
RSUs Vesting*
	
Top Third 	  	100%
	
Middle Third 	  	50%
	
Bottom Third 	  	0%

For the three-year performance period from August 25, 2013 through
August 24, 2016, 280,000 performance-based RSUs were subject to the
Relative TSR performance condition. Apple’s Relative TSR for this
performance period was at the 78th percentile of the companies that were
included in the S&P 500 for the entire performance period. As a result,
all of the 280,000 performance-based RSUs vested on August 24, 2016.

Other Named Executive Officers’ Long-Term Equity Awards

In October 2015, the Compensation Committee awarded RSUs with a grant
date fair value of $20 million (the “Annual RSU Awards”) to each of our
named executive officers, other than Mr. Cook. The Annual RSU Awards
were allocated between 60% time-based and 40% performance-based RSUs as
a percentage of the grant date fair value reported in the Summary
Compensation Table. The value and relative mix of the Annual RSU Awards
was a subjective determination by the Compensation Committee based on
its own business judgment after taking into consideration factors such
as market compensation data provided by its independent compensation
consultant, its subjective assessment of the appropriate relationship
between time- and performance-based awards, historical equity grants,
and, with respect to the value of the awards, financial results and
market capitalization compared to peer companies.

The Annual RSU Awards granted as performance-based RSUs in October 2015
have a three-year performance-period (fiscal years 2016 through 2018)
and will vest on October 1, 2018, subject to continued employment
through that date, with zero to 200% of the target number of shares
vesting depending on Apple’s Relative TSR percentile ranking for the
performance period, as follows:

 

		
*Relative TSR Percentile v.
S&P 500 Companies* 	  	

*Performance-Based RSUs Vesting*

*as a Percentage of Target*

	
85th or above 	  	200%
	
55th 	  	100%
	
25th 	  	25%
	
below 25th 	  	0%

This vesting schedule requires Relative TSR performance at the 25th
percentile to vest in the threshold number of shares, Relative TSR
performance at the 55th percentile to vest in the target number of
shares, and Relative TSR performance that is significantly above the
median at the 85th percentile in order to vest in the maximum 200% of
the target number of shares.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 35

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

No RSUs vest if Apple’s Relative TSR performance is below the 25th
percentile. In addition, if Apple’s total shareholder return for the
performance period is negative, the number of RSUs that vests is capped
at 100% of the target number of shares regardless of our percentile
ranking. If Apple’s Relative TSR percentile ranking is above the 25th
percentile and between the levels shown in the table above, the portion
of the RSUs that vests is linearly interpolated between the two nearest
vesting percentages.

During 2016, Mr. Maestri vested in performance-based RSUs that were
granted on May 29, 2014 in connection with his promotion to Chief
Financial Officer. For the 16-month performance period from May 29, 2014
through the end of 2015, Apple’s Relative TSR was at the 85th percentile
of the companies that were included in the S&P 500 for the period. As a
result, Mr. Maestri vested in 15,918 performance-based RSUs on October
1, 2015. At the beginning of 2017, for the 28-month period from May 29,
2014 through the end of 2016, Mr. Maestri vested in 10,694
performance-based RSUs based on Apple’s Relative TSR at the 67th
percentile of the companies that were included in the S&P 500 for the
period.

During 2016, Ms. Ahrendts vested in performance-based RSUs that were
granted on May 1, 2014 in connection with her hiring. For the two-year
performance period from May 1, 2014 through April 30, 2016, Apple’s
Relative TSR was at the 81st percentile of the companies that were
included in the S&P 500 for the period. As a result, Ms. Ahrendts vested
in 75,124 performance-based RSUs on May 1, 2016.

During 2016, Mr. Cue, Mr. Riccio, and Mr. Sewell vested in annual
performance-based RSUs that were granted on March 3, 2014. For the
two-year performance period from the beginning of 2014 through the end
of 2015, Apple’s Relative TSR was at the 92nd percentile of the
companies that were included in the S&P 500 for the period. As a result,
each of Mr. Cue, Mr. Riccio, and Mr. Sewell vested in 92,764
performance-based RSUs on October 1, 2015. At the beginning of 2017, for
the three-year period from the beginning of 2014 through the end of
2016, each of Mr. Cue, Mr. Riccio, and Mr. Sewell vested in 87,578
performance-based RSUs based on Apple’s Relative TSR at the 83rd
percentile of the companies that were included in the S&P 500 for the
period.

The Annual RSU Awards granted as time-based RSUs in October 2015 vest in
three equal annual installments commencing on April 1, 2018
(approximately two and one-half years following the grant date), subject
to continued employment through each applicable vesting date. This
schedule means that, to receive the full benefit of the time-based RSU
award, the recipient must generally perform four and one-half years of
continuous service following the grant date. The April vesting dates for
the time-based RSUs were selected to balance the October vesting of the
performance-based RSUs and provide regular vesting intervals.

In October 2016, the Compensation Committee took into consideration a
number of factors, including shareholder feedback, and increased the
performance-based component of the 2017 Annual RSU Awards to 50% of the
grant date fair value, placing an even greater emphasis on
performance-based compensation for our executive officers.

Dividend Equivalents

At Mr. Cook’s request, none of his RSUs participate in dividend
equivalents. All other unvested RSUs granted to Apple employees have
dividend equivalents. Dividend equivalents entitle holders of RSUs to
the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock. Dividend
equivalents are subject to the same vesting and other terms and
conditions as the corresponding unvested RSUs. Dividend equivalents are
accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest.

Other Benefits

Our executive officers are eligible to participate in our health and
welfare programs, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 401(k) Plan, matching
gifts program, vacation cash-out, and other benefit programs on the same
basis as other employees.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 36

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

*Security.*The personal safety and security of our employees is of the
utmost importance to Apple and its shareholders. Accordingly, we provide
risk-based, business-related security services to our employees,
including our named executive officers, as appropriate. Although not
requested by Mr. Cook, given the profile of the company and Mr. Cook’s
role as CEO, Apple also provides risk-based personal security services
for him, as determined to be appropriate by our security team. We do not
consider these security measures to be a personal benefit for Mr. Cook,
but rather a reasonable and necessary expense for the benefit of Apple.
We also offer risk-based personal security assistance to members of our
executive team based on the highly visible nature of their roles. The
aggregate incremental cost of these services is reported in the Summary
Compensation Table in accordance with SEC disclosure rules.

*Relocation Assistance.*Relocation assistance, including a gross-up for
taxable relocation benefits, is provided to employees when necessary
based on business needs. Ms. Ahrendts was provided relocation assistance
to move closer to Apple’s headquarters in connection with her hiring.
Some of these relocation expenses were incurred in 2016 and are reported
in the Summary Compensation Table.

*Severance.*We generally do not enter into severance arrangements with
our executive officers. An exception to this practice was made in
connection with hiring Ms. Ahrendts in May 2014 in recognition of the
risk she assumed by leaving her prior role as Chief Executive Officer of
Burberry. Ms. Ahrendts has a limited cash severance arrangement until
May 2017 and equity acceleration for a portion of her outstanding equity
awards, in each case, in the event of a termination by Apple other than
for “Cause,” or if she resigns for “Good Reason.” Details of the
arrangement with Ms. Ahrendts are described under “Executive
Compensation—Executive Compensation Tables” in the section entitled
“Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control.”

*Chartered Aircraft.*From time to time, members of the executive team,
including each of the named executive officers, may request chartered
aircraft services to facilitate travel that is directly and integrally
related to the performance of their job duties and when the use of a
chartered plane will increase efficiency or security associated with a
particular trip. Occasionally, spouses or other family members may
accompany an executive on these flights. When this occurs, we require
the executive to pay the greater of the incremental cost, if any, to
accommodate these guests on the flight or the imputed income amount
determined using the IRS Standard Industry Fare Level (SIFL) rate.
Accordingly, there is no incremental cost to Apple for family
accompaniment on chartered business flights.

Governance and Other Considerations

*Tax Deductibility of Compensation Expense.* Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code places a $1 million limit on the amount of
compensation a company can deduct in any one year for compensation paid
to the chief executive officer and the three most highly-compensated
executive officers employed by the company at the end of the year (other
than the chief financial officer). However, the $1 million deduction
limit generally does not apply to compensation that is performance-based
and provided under a shareholder-approved plan. While the Compensation
Committee considers the deductibility of awards as one factor in
determining executive compensation, the Compensation Committee also
looks at other factors in making its decisions, as noted above, and
retains the flexibility to award compensation that it determines to be
consistent with the goals of our executive compensation program even if
the awards are not deductible by Apple for tax purposes.

In general, the 2016 annual cash incentive opportunities for executive
officers have been designed in a manner intended to be exempt from the
deduction limitation of Section 162(m) because they are paid based on
achievement of pre-determined performance goals established by the
Compensation Committee pursuant to our shareholder-approved equity
incentive plan.

As a result of the modification of Mr. Cook’s 2011 RSU Award, we intend
that the tranches of the award subject to performance criteria with
measurement periods that begin after the June 21, 2013 modification be
exempt from the deduction limitation of Section 162(m). In addition, the
performance-based RSU awards granted to our other named executive
officers in 2016 are also intended to be exempt from the deduction
limitation of Section 162(m).

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 37

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Base salary and RSU awards with only time-based vesting requirements,
which represent a portion of the equity awards granted to our executive
officers, are not exempt from Section 162(m), and therefore will not be
deductible to the extent the $1 million limit of Section 162(m) is
exceeded.

Despite the Compensation Committee’s efforts to structure the executive
team annual cash incentives and performance-based RSUs in a manner
intended to be exempt from Section 162(m) and therefore not subject to
its deduction limits, because of ambiguities and uncertainties as to the
application and interpretation of Section 162(m) and the regulations
issued thereunder, no assurance can be given that compensation we intend
to satisfy the requirements for exemption from Section 162(m) in fact
will. Further, the Compensation Committee reserves the right to modify
compensation that was initially intended to be exempt from Section
162(m) if it determines that such modifications are consistent with
Apple’s business needs.

*Recoupment of RSUs.*The named executive officers’ RSUs are granted
pursuant to the terms of our standard RSU agreements. These terms
require an employee to deliver or otherwise repay to Apple any shares or
other amount that may be paid in respect of RSUs in the event the
employee commits a felony while employed by Apple, or engages in a
breach of confidentiality, commits an act of theft, embezzlement or
fraud, or materially breaches any agreement with Apple while employed by
Apple or at any time thereafter.

*Prohibition on Hedging, Pledging, and Short Sales.*We prohibit
transactions in derivatives of Apple stock, including hedging
transactions, for all directors, officers, employees, consultants, and
contractors of Apple. In addition, we prohibit pledging of Apple stock
as collateral by directors and executive officers of Apple and prohibit
short sales of Apple stock by directors and executive officers of Apple.

*Stock Ownership Guidelines.*Under our stock ownership guidelines, Mr.
Cook is expected to own shares of Apple stock that have a value equal to
ten times his base salary. Although Mr. Cook was required to satisfy the
stock ownership guidelines within five years of its implementation in
2012, he already owns shares with a value significantly in excess of the
guidelines. All other executive officers are expected to own shares that
have a value equal to three times their base salary by the later of
February 6, 2018, or within five years after an officer first becomes
subject to the guidelines. Shares may be owned directly by the
individual, owned jointly with or separately by the individual’s spouse,
or held in trust for the benefit of the individual, the individual’s
spouse or children.

*Risk Considerations.*The Compensation Committee considers, in
establishing and reviewing the executive compensation program, whether
the program encourages unnecessary or excessive risk-taking and has
concluded that it does not. See the section entitled “Board Oversight of
Risk Management” above for an additional discussion of risk considerations.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 38

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Executive Compensation Tables

Summary Compensation Table—2016, 2015, and 2014

The following table, footnotes, and related narrative show information
regarding the total compensation of each named executive officer for
2016, 2015, and 2014, except in the case of Mr. Sewell, who was not a
named executive officer in 2014.

 

																												

*Name and Principal Position*

(a)

	  	

*Year*

(b)

	  	   	

*Salary*

($)(c)

	  	   	

*Bonus*

($)(d)

	  	   	

*Stock*

*Awards*^(1) **

($)(e)

	  	  	

*Non-Equity*

*Incentive Plan*

*Compensation*^(2) **

($)(f)

	  	  	

*All Other*

*Compensation*

($)(g)

	  	  	

*Total*

($)(h)

	 
							

*Tim Cook*

 

Chief Executive Officer

	  	  	2016 	   	   	  	3,000,000 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	  	— 	   	 
  	5,370,000 	   	  	^  	377,719^	^(3)   	  	  	8,747,719 	  
  	

 

 

	

 

2015

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

2,000,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

8,000,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

281,327

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

10,281,327

	

 

  

  	

 

 

 

	

 

2014

 

	

 

  

 

	   	

 

 

	

 

1,748,462

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

6,700,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

774,176

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

9,222,638

	

 

  

							

*Luca Maestri*

 

Senior Vice President,

Chief Financial Officer

	  	  	2016 	   	   	  	1,000,000 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	 
20,000,083 	   	  	  	1,790,000 	   	  	^  	13,486^	^(4)   	  	 
22,803,569 	  
  	

 

 

	

 

2015

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

1,000,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,105

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

4,000,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

337,872

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

25,337,977

	

 

  

  	

 

 

 

	

 

2014

 

	

 

  

 

	   	

 

 

	

 

717,211

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

11,335,043

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

1,608,255

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

342,292

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

14,002,801

	

 

  

							

*Angela Ahrendts*

 

Senior Vice President,
Retail

	  	  	2016 	   	   	  	1,000,000 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	 
20,000,083 	   	  	  	1,790,000 	   	  	^  	112,809^	^(5)   	  	 
22,902,892 	  
  	

 

 

	

 

2015

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

1,000,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,105

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

4,000,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

779,124

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

25,779,229

	

 

  

  	

 

 

 

	

 

2014

 

	

 

  

 

	   	

 

 

	

 

411,538

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

500,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

70,001,196

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

1,648,352

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

790,038

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

73,351,124

	

 

  

							

*Eddy Cue*

 

Senior Vice President,
Internet Software and
Services

	  	  	2016 	   	   	  	1,000,000 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	 
20,000,083 	   	  	  	1,790,000 	   	  	^  	17,461^	^(6)   	  	 
22,807,544 	  
  	

 

 

	

 

2015

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

1,000,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,105

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

4,000,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

52,136

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

25,052,241

	

 

  

  	

 

 

 

	

 

2014

 

	

 

  

 

	   	

 

 

	

 

947,596

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,900

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

3,437,500

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

59,743

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

24,445,739

	

 

  

							

*Dan Riccio*

 

Senior Vice President,
Hardware Engineering

	  	  	2016 	   	   	  	1,000,000 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	 
20,000,083 	   	  	  	1,790,000 	   	  	^  	17,461^	^(7)   	  	 
22,807,544 	  
  	

 

 

	

 

2015

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

1,000,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,105

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

4,000,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

17,521

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

25,017,626

	

 

  

  	

 

 

 

	

 

2014

 

	

 

  

 

	   	

 

 

	

 

947,596

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,900

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

3,437,500

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

17,239

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

24,403,235

	

 

  

							

*Bruce Sewell*

 

Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and
Secretary

	  	  	2016 	   	   	  	1,000,000 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	 
20,000,083 	   	  	  	1,790,000 	   	  	^  	17,461^	^(8)   	  	 
22,807,544 	  
  	

 

 

	

 

2015

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

1,000,000

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

—

	

 

  

	   	

 

 

	

 

20,000,105

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

4,000,000

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

17,521

	

 

  

	  	

 

 

	

 

25,017,626

	

 

  

  				   				   				   				  				  				  			

 

  	(1) 	

The grant date fair value for time-based RSUs is measured based on the
closing fair market value of Apple’s common stock on the date of grant.
The grant date fair value for performance-based RSUs is calculated based
on a Monte-Carlo valuation of each award on the date of grant,
determined under FASB ASC 718. Assuming the highest level of performance
is achieved under the applicable performance conditions, the maximum
possible value of the performance-based RSUs granted to each of the
named executive officers in 2016 (other than Mr. Cook), using the grant
date fair value, is $16,000,122. See Note 1—

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 39

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

  	

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies found in Part II, Item 8,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, and also see
footnote 1 to the table entitled “Grants of Plan-Based Awards—2016.”

	 

 

  	(2) 	

As described under “Executive Compensation—Compensation Discussion and
Analysis,” the named executive officers’ annual cash incentives are
based on the performance of Apple relative to pre-determined objectives
for the year, and the performance of the individual executive. The
threshold, target, and maximum amounts for each named executive
officer’s 2016 annual cash incentive opportunity are shown in the table
entitled “Grants of Plan-Based Awards—2016.” In 2016, Apple was below
its target performance goals for both net sales and operating income,
resulting in a payout of each named executive officer’s annual cash
incentive at 89.5% of target. The Compensation Committee determined that
no downward adjustments would be made based on Apple’s or an
individual’s performance and approved the payout for each named
executive officer for 2016.

	 

 

  	(3) 	

This amount represents: (i) Apple’s contributions to Mr. Cook’s account
under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $15,900; (ii) term life insurance
premiums paid by Apple in the amount of $2,925; (iii) vacation cash-out
in the amount of $138,462; and (iv) security expenses in the amount of
$220,432, which represents the incremental cost for personal security
services provided to Mr. Cook as determined by allocating both direct
costs and a percentage of fixed costs incurred by Apple and used to
provide personal security services.

	 

 

  	(4) 	

This amount represents: (i) Apple’s contributions to Mr. Maestri’s
account under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $11,925; and (ii) term
life insurance premiums paid by Apple in the amount of $1,561.

	 

 

  	(5) 	

This amount represents: (i) Apple’s contributions to Ms. Ahrendts’
account under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $7,950; (ii) term life
insurance premiums paid by Apple in the amount of $1,561;
(iii) relocation expenses in the amount of $49,253 and associated tax
gross up for taxable relocation amounts in the amount of $53,742; and
(iv) personal security expenses in the amount of $303.

	 

 

  	(6) 	

This amount represents: (i) Apple’s contributions to Mr. Cue’s account
under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $15,900; and (ii) term life
insurance premiums paid by Apple in the amount of $1,561.

	 

 

  	(7) 	

This amount represents: (i) Apple’s contributions to Mr. Riccio’s
account under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $15,900; and (ii) term
life insurance premiums paid by Apple in the amount of $1,561.

	 

 

  	(8) 	

This amount represents: (i) Apple’s contributions to Mr. Sewell’s
account under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $15,900; and (ii) term
life insurance premiums paid by Apple in the amount of $1,561.

	 

The amounts in the salary, bonus, and non-equity incentive plan
compensation columns of the “Summary Compensation Table—2016, 2015, and
2014” reflect actual amounts paid for the relevant years, while the
amounts in the stock awards column reflect accounting values. The tables
entitled “Outstanding Equity Awards at 2016 Year-End” and “Option
Exercises and Stock Vested—2016” provide further information on the
named executive officers’ potential realizable value and actual value
realized with respect to their equity awards. The “Summary Compensation
Table—2016, 2015, and 2014” should be read in conjunction with the
Compensation Discussion and Analysis and the subsequent tables and
narrative descriptions.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 40

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Grants of Plan-Based Awards—2016

The following table shows information regarding the incentive awards
granted to the named executive officers for 2016.

 

																																														
  	  	  	  	  	  	  	

*Estimated Future Payouts Under*

*Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards*

	  	  	  	  	  	

*Estimated Future Payouts*

*Under Equity Incentive Plan*

*Awards*

	  	  	  	  	  	

*All Other*

*Stock*

*Awards:*

*Number*

*of Shares*

*of Stock*

*or Units*

(#)(i)

	  	  	

*Grant Date*

*Fair Value
of Stock
and Option*

*Awards*^(1) **

($)(j)

	 

*Name*

(a)

	  	*Award Type* 	  	

*Grant Date*

(b)

	  	  	

*Threshold*

($)(c)

	  	  	

*Target*

($)(d)

	  	  	

*Maximum*

($)(e)

	  	  	  	  	  	

*Threshold*

(#)(f)

	  	  	

*Target*

(#)(g)

	  	  	

*Maximum*

(#)(h)

	  	  	  	  	  	 
  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 

*Tim Cook*

 

	  	Cash Incentive 	  	  	— 	   	  	  	3,000,000 	   	  	 
6,000,000 	   	  	  	12,000,000 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	  
												
*Luca Maestri* 	  	Cash Incentive 	  	  	— 	   	  	  	1,000,000
   	  	  	2,000,000 	   	  	  	4,000,000 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	 
  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	  
	  	Time-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  			
  	  	108,323 	   	  	  	12,000,022 	  
	  	Performance-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	 
— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	16,316 	   	  	  	65,264 	   	  	 
130,528 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	8,000,061 	  
												
*Angela Ahrendts* 	  	Cash Incentive 	  	  	— 	   	  	  	1,000,000
   	  	  	2,000,000 	   	  	  	4,000,000 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	 
  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	  
  	Time-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  			
  	  	108,323 	   	  	  	12,000,022 	  
	  	Performance-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	 
— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	16,316 	   	  	  	65,264 	   	  	 
130,528 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	8,000,061 	  
												
*Eddy Cue* 	  	Cash Incentive 	  	  	— 	   	  	  	1,000,000 	   	  	 
2,000,000 	   	  	  	4,000,000 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	  
	  	Time-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  			
  	  	108,323 	   	  	  	12,000,022 	  
	  	Performance-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	 
— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	16,316 	   	  	  	65,264 	   	  	 
130,528 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	8,000,061 	  
												
*Dan Riccio* 	  	Cash Incentive 	  	  	— 	   	  	  	1,000,000 	   	 
  	2,000,000 	   	  	  	4,000,000 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	 
— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	  
	  	Time-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  			
  	  	108,323 	   	  	  	12,000,022 	  
	  	Performance-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	 
— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	16,316 	   	  	  	65,264 	   	  	 
130,528 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	8,000,061 	  
												
*Bruce Sewell* 	  	Cash Incentive 	  	  	— 	   	  	  	1,000,000
   	  	  	2,000,000 	   	  	  	4,000,000 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	 
  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	  
	  	Time-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	—
   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  			
  	  	108,323 	   	  	  	12,000,022 	  
	  	Performance-based RSUs 	  	  	10/5/2015 	   	  	  	— 	   	  	 
— 	   	  	  	— 	   	  				  	  	16,316 	   	  	  	65,264 	   	  	 
130,528 	   	  				  	  	— 	   	  	  	8,000,061 	  

 

  	(1) 	

The grant date fair value for time-based RSUs is measured based on the
closing fair market value of Apple’s common stock on the date of grant.
The grant date fair value for performance-based RSUs is calculated based
on a Monte-Carlo valuation of each award on the date of grant,
determined under FASB ASC 718, incorporating the following assumptions:

	 

 

								
  	   	  	   	

*Assumptions*

				
*Grant Date* 	   	

*Performance*

*Period End Date*

	   	

*Expected Term*

(years)

	   	*Expected
Volatility* 	   	*Risk-Free
Interest Rate*
				
10/5/2015 	   	9/29/2018 	   	2.98 	   	26.91% 	   	0.89%

 

  	     	

Apple used its historical stock prices as the basis for the volatility
assumptions. The risk-free interest rates were based on U.S. Treasury
rates in effect at the time of grant. The expected term was based on the
time remaining in the performance period on the grant date. See Note
1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies found in Part II, Item 8,
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 41

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Description of Plan-Based Awards

*Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards.*Each of the “Non-Equity Incentive
Plan Awards” shown in the table entitled “Grants of Plan-Based
Awards—2016” was granted under Apple’s 2014 Employee Stock Plan (the
“2014 Plan”), which provides flexibility to grant cash incentive awards,
as well as equity awards. The material terms of the 2016 non-equity
incentive awards are described under “Executive
Compensation—Compensation Discussion and Analysis” in the section
entitled “Annual Cash Incentive.”

*All Other Stock Awards.*Each of the time-based and performance-based
RSUs shown in the table entitled “Grants of Plan-Based Awards—2016” was
granted under, and is subject to, the terms of the 2014 Plan. The
Compensation Committee administers the 2014 Plan.

*Time-Based RSUs.*The time-based RSUs granted on October 5, 2015 are
scheduled to vest in three annual installments commencing on April 1,
2018. Vesting is generally contingent on each officer’s continued
employment with Apple through the applicable vesting date.

*Performance-Based RSUs.*The performance-based RSUs granted on October
5, 2015 are scheduled to vest on October 1, 2018, subject to each
officer’s continued employment with Apple through the vesting date and
satisfaction of performance conditions for the performance period
beginning on September 27, 2015 and ending on September 29, 2018. As
described under “Executive Compensation—Compensation Discussion and
Analysis” in the section entitled “Other Named Executive Officers’
Long-Term Equity Awards,” in each case, between 0% and 200% of the
target number of performance-based RSUs vest depending on Apple’s
Relative TSR percentile compared to the other companies in the S&P 500
over the performance period, with 100% of the target RSUs vesting if
Apple’s Relative TSR is at the 55th percentile. If Apple’s total
shareholder return for the performance period is negative, the number of
RSUs that vest is capped at 100% of target.

*Dividend Equivalents.*RSUs granted under the 2014 Plan have dividend
equivalents, which entitle holders of RSUs to the same dividend value
per share as holders of common stock. Dividend equivalents are subject
to the same vesting and other terms and conditions as the corresponding
unvested RSUs. Dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid when the
underlying RSUs vest. At Mr. Cook’s request, none of his RSUs
participate in dividend equivalents.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 42

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Outstanding Equity Awards at 2016 Year-End

The following table shows information regarding the outstanding equity
awards held by each of the named executive officers as of September 24,
2016.

 

																				

*Name*

(a)

	   	

*Grant Date*

(b)

	  	   	

*Number of Shares*

*or Units of Stock*

*That Have Not*

*Vested*

(#)(c)

	  	   	

*Market Value of*

*Shares or Units of*

*Stock That Have*

*Not Vested*^(1) **

($)(d)

	  	   	

*Equity Incentive*

*Plan Awards:*

*Number of*

*Unearned Shares,*

*Units or Other*

*Rights That Have*

*Not Vested*

(#)(e)

	  	   	

*Equity Incentive*

*Plan Awards:*

*Market or Payout*

*Value of Unearned*

*Shares, Units or*

*Other Rights That*

*Have Not Vested*^(1) *
*

($)(f)

	 
					
*Tim Cook* 	   	  	8/24/2011 	   	   	^  	2,100,000^(2) 	^   	   	 
236,691,000 	   	   	^  	1,400,000^(2) 	^   	   	  	157,794,000 	  
					
*Luca Maestri* 	   	  	3/4/2013 	   	   	^  	33,328^(3) 	^   	   	 
3,756,399 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	  	— 	  
					
	   	  	10/7/2013 	   	   	^  	37,674^(4) 	^   	   	  	4,246,237
   	   	  	— 	   	   	  	— 	  
					
	   	  	5/29/2014 	   	   	^  	19,100^(5) 	^   	   	  	2,152,761 	  
   	^  	7,749^(5)(6) 	^   	   	  	873,390 	  
					
	   	  	10/17/2014 	   	   	^  	122,863^(7) 	^   	   	 
13,847,889 	   	   	^  	68,576^(7)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,729,201 	  
					
	   	  	10/5/15 	   	   	^  	108,323^(8) 	^   	   	  	12,209,085 	  
   	^  	65,264^(8)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,355,905 	  
					
*Angela Ahrendts* 	   	  	5/1/2014 	   	   	^  	26,271^(9) 	^   	   	 
2,961,004 	   	   	  	— 	   	   	  	— 	  
					
	   	  	5/1/2014 	   	   	^  	78,110^(10) 	^   	   	  	8,803,778 	  
   	^  	40,229^(10)(6) 	^   	   	  	4,534,211 	  
					
	   	  	10/17/2014 	   	   	^  	122,863^(7) 	^   	   	 
13,847,889 	   	   	^  	68,576^(7)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,729,201 	  
					
	   	  	10/5/15 	   	   	^  	108,323^(8) 	^   	   	  	12,209,085 	  
   	^  	65,264^(8)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,355,905 	  
					
*Eddy Cue* 	   	  	3/3/2014 	   	   	^  	106,110^(11) 	^   	   	 
11,959,658 	   	   	^  	44,912^(11)(6) 	^   	   	  	5,062,032 	  
					
	   	  	10/17/2014 	   	   	^  	122,863^(7) 	^   	   	 
13,847,889 	   	   	^  	68,576^(7)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,729,201 	  
					
	   	  	10/5/15 	   	   	^  	108,323^(8) 	^   	   	  	12,209,085 	  
   	^  	65,264^(8)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,355,905 	  
					
*Dan Riccio* 	   	  	3/3/2014 	   	   	^  	106,110^(11) 	^   	   	 
11,959,658 	   	   	^  	44,912^(11)(6) 	^   	   	  	5,062,032 	  
					
	   	  	10/17/2014 	   	   	^  	122,863^(7) 	^   	   	 
13,847,889 	   	   	^  	68,576^(7)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,729,201 	  
					
	   	  	10/5/15 	   	   	^  	108,323^(8) 	^   	   	  	12,209,085 	  
   	^  	65,264^(8)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,355,905 	  
					
*Bruce Sewell* 	   	  	3/3/2014 	   	   	^  	106,110^(11) 	^   	   	 
11,959,658 	   	   	^  	44,912^(11)(6) 	^   	   	  	5,062,032 	  
					
	   	  	10/17/2014 	   	   	^  	122,863^(7) 	^   	   	 
13,847,889 	   	   	^  	68,576^(7)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,729,201 	  
					
	   	  	10/5/15 	   	   	^  	108,323^(8) 	^   	   	  	12,209,085 	  
   	^  	65,264^(8)(6) 	^   	   	  	7,355,905 	  

 

  	(1) 	

The dollar amounts shown in Columns (d) and (f) are determined by
multiplying the number of shares or units shown in Column (c) or (e), as
applicable, by $112.71, the closing price of Apple’s common stock on
September 23, 2016, the last trading day of Apple’s fiscal year.

	 

 

  	(2) 	

700,000 time-based RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest on
August 24, 2021, provided, that the officer continues to be employed
with Apple through the vesting date. The remaining 2,800,000 time- and
performance-based RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in
five annual installments commencing on August 24, 2017, assuming that
the officer continues to be employed with Apple through the applicable
vesting date and, with respect to a portion of each installment,
satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 43

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

  	(3) 	

The RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in their entirety
on March 4, 2017, assuming that the officer continues to be employed
with Apple through the vesting date.

	 

 

  	(4) 	

12,558 RSUs subject to this award vested on October 15, 2016, and the
remaining RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in two
semi-annual installments commencing on April 15, 2017, assuming that the
officer continues to be employed with Apple through the applicable
vesting date.

	 

 

  	(5) 	

The time-based RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in two
annual installments commencing on May 29, 2017, assuming that the
officer continues to be employed with Apple through the applicable
vesting date. 10,694 performance-based RSUs subject to this award vested
on October 1, 2016 (138% of the target number of performance-based RSUs)
upon satisfaction of the performance condition above target.

	 

 

  	(6) 	

The target number of performance-based RSUs is shown. As described under
“Executive Compensation—Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” in each
case, between 0% and 200% of the target number of performance-based RSUs
vest depending on Apple’s Relative TSR compared to the other companies
in the S&P 500 over the relevant performance period.

	 

 

  	(7) 	

The time-based RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in three
annual installments commencing on April 1, 2017, assuming that the
officer continues to be employed with Apple through the applicable
vesting date. 68,576 performance-based RSUs are scheduled to vest on
October 1, 2017, assuming that the officer continues to be employed with
Apple through the vesting date and satisfaction of applicable
performance conditions.

	 

 

  	(8) 	

The time-based RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in three
annual installments commencing on April 1, 2018, assuming that the
officer continues to be employed with Apple through the applicable
vesting date. 65,264 performance-based RSUs are scheduled to vest on
October 1, 2018, assuming that the officer continues to be employed with
Apple through the vesting date and satisfaction of applicable
performance conditions.

	 

 

  	(9) 	

13,139 RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest on June 14,
2017, and 13,132 RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest on
June 14, 2018, in each case, assuming that the officer continues to be
employed with Apple through the applicable vesting date.

	 

 

  	(10) 	

78,110 RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest on May 1, 2017,
assuming that the officer continues to be employed with Apple through
the vesting date. 40,229 performance-based RSUs subject to this award
are scheduled to vest on May 1, 2017, assuming that the officer
continues to be employed with Apple through the vesting date and
satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.

	 

 

  	(11) 	

The time-based RSUs subject to this award are scheduled to vest in two
annual installments commencing on April 1, 2017, assuming that the
officer continues to be employed with Apple through the applicable
vesting date. 87,578 performance-based RSUs subject to this award vested
on October 1, 2016 (195% of the target number of performance-based RSUs)
upon satisfaction of the performance condition above target.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 44

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Stock Vested—2016

The following table shows information regarding the vesting during 2016
of RSUs previously granted to the named executive officers. No options
were exercised by any named executive officer during 2016.

 

								
  	   	*Stock Awards* 	 

*Name*

(a)

	   	

*Number of Shares*

*Acquired on Vesting*

(#)(b)

	  	   	

*Value Realized on*

*Vesting*^(1) **

($)(c)

	 
		
*Tim Cook* 	   	  	1,260,000 	   	   	  	136,117,800 	  
		
*Luca Maestri* 	   	  	117,243 	   	   	  	13,114,923 	  
		
*Angela Ahrendts* 	   	  	218,916 	   	   	  	21,669,865 	  
		
*Eddy Cue* 	   	  	670,820 	   	   	  	80,284,181 	  
		
*Dan Riccio* 	   	  	338,320 	   	   	  	38,919,456 	  
		
*Bruce Sewell* 	   	  	670,820 	   	   	  	75,674,681 	  

 

  	(1) 	

The dollar amounts shown in Column (c) are determined by multiplying the
number of shares that vested by the sum of the per share closing price
of Apple’s common stock on the vesting date and any dividend equivalents
attributable to each such share.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 45

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control

We generally do not enter into severance arrangements with our named
executive officers, and none of the equity awards granted to the named
executive officers under Apple’s equity incentive plans provide for
acceleration in connection with a change in control or a termination of
employment, other than as noted below or in connection with death or
disability.

As described under “Executive Compensation—Compensation Discussion and
Analysis” in the section entitled “Other Benefits,” Ms. Ahrendts was
provided a limited cash severance arrangement when she joined Apple.
Within the first three years of her start date, if we terminate Ms.
Ahrendts’ employment other than for “Cause” or if she resigns for “Good
Reason,” we will pay her as severance the amount of her final base
salary for the remainder of the three-year period in a single lump sum.
Under this arrangement, the severance value declines to zero by May 1,
2017. In addition, the vesting of the RSUs awarded to Ms. Ahrendts to
compensate her for her unvested equity at Burberry, where she previously
served as Chief Executive Officer (the “Make Whole RSUs”), is
accelerated if Apple terminates her employment other than for “Cause” or
if she resigns for “Good Reason.” Had Ms. Ahrendts’ employment
terminated on September 23, 2016, the last business day of Apple’s
fiscal year, the estimated amount that she would have been entitled to
under the cash severance arrangement would have been $597,260, and the
estimated amount she would have been entitled to under the Make Whole
RSUs would have been $2,961,004. “Cause” and “Good Reason” are defined
in Ms. Ahrendts’ offer letter. “Cause” generally means an act of fraud
or material dishonesty; gross misconduct; failure to follow the lawful
direction of the CEO or Board; failure to perform material duties for
Apple; or material breach of an Apple policy. “Good Reason” generally
means a material change in duties or responsibilities; a change in the
reporting structure such that Ms. Ahrendts no longer reports to the CEO;
a material change in primary work location; or a breach by Apple of any
of its material commitments in connection with Ms. Ahrendts’ employment.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 46

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Equity Acceleration upon Death or Disability

*Time-Based RSUs.*Time-based RSUs provide for partial accelerated
vesting of the RSUs scheduled to vest on the next applicable vesting
date following termination of employment due to disability and for full
accelerated vesting upon death.

*Performance-Based RSUs.*Performance-based RSUs provide for a partial
waiver of the service vesting condition upon the death or disability of
the award recipient, with the number of shares that vest determined at
the end of the performance period, based on actual performance results
and the recipient’s dates of employment during the performance period.

The following table shows the estimated amounts that the named executive
officers would have become entitled to under the terms of all
outstanding RSUs had their employment terminated due to either death or
disability on September 23, 2016, the last business day of Apple’s
fiscal year. The estimated values for performance-based RSUs are shown
at the maximum potential payout amounts.

 

								
*Name* 	     	

*Estimated Total Value of Equity*

*Acceleration upon Death*^(1) **

($)

	  	     	

*Estimated Total Value of Equity
Acceleration upon  Disability*^(1) **

($)

	 
		
*Tim Cook* 	     	  	270,871,096 	   	     	  	38,070,282 	  
		
*Luca Maestri* 	     	  	53,042,453 	   	     	  	24,038,225 	  
		
*Angela Ahrendts* 	     	  	60,163,584 	   	     	  	31,472,351 	  
		
*Eddy Cue* 	     	  	63,216,785 	   	     	  	33,290,589 	  
		
*Dan Riccio* 	     	  	63,216,785 	   	     	  	33,290,589 	  
		
*Bruce Sewell* 	     	  	63,216,785 	   	     	  	33,290,589 	  

 

  	(1) 	

The dollar amounts are determined by multiplying the number of shares
subject to the accelerated RSUs by $112.71 (the closing price of Apple’s
common stock on September 23, 2016).

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 47

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposals

Overview of Proposals

This Proxy Statement contains 9 proposals requiring shareholder action:

 

  	• 	  	

Proposal No. 1 requests the election to our Board of the eight nominees
named in this Proxy Statement.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Proposal No. 2 requests the ratification of the appointment of Ernst &
Young LLP as Apple’s independent registered public accounting firm for
2017.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Proposal No. 3 requests that shareholders vote on an advisory resolution
approving our executive compensation.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Proposal No. 4 requests that shareholders hold an advisory vote on the
frequency of advisory votes on executive compensation.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Proposals No. 5 through No. 9 are shareholder proposals.

	 

Each proposal is discussed in more detail in the pages that follow.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 48

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 1 – Election of Directors

The Board has nominated directors Bell, Cook, Gore, Iger, Jung,
Levinson, Sugar, and Wagner to be elected to serve until the next annual
meeting of shareholders and until their successors are duly elected and
qualified.

At the Annual Meeting, proxies cannot be voted for a greater number of
individuals than the eight nominees named in this Proxy Statement.
Holders of proxies solicited by this Proxy Statement will vote the
proxies received by them as directed on the proxy card or, if no
direction is made, for the election of the Board’s eight nominees.

The term of any incumbent director who does not receive the affirmative
vote of (1) a majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and
voting at the Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required
to constitute a quorum, and has not earlier resigned, will end on the
date that is the earlier of (a) 90 days after the date on which the
voting results for the Annual Meeting are determined by the inspector of
election, or (b) the date on which the Board selects a person to fill
the office held by that director in accordance with Apple’s bylaws.

Each of the directors nominated by the Board has consented to serving as
a nominee, being named in this Proxy Statement, and serving on the Board
if elected. Each director elected at the Annual Meeting will be elected
to serve a one-year term. If any nominee is unable or declines to serve
as a director at the time of the Annual Meeting, the proxy holders may
vote for any nominee designated by the present Board to fill the vacancy.

There are no family relationships among Apple’s executive officers and
directors.

/The Board recommends that shareholders vote FOR the election of
directors Bell, Cook, Gore, Iger, Jung, Levinson, Sugar, and Wagner. /

 

Vote Required

Apple has implemented majority voting in uncontested elections of
directors. Accordingly, Apple’s bylaws provide that in an uncontested
election of directors the affirmative vote of (i) a majority of the
shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the Annual Meeting
and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute a quorum is
required to elect a director.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 49

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 2 – Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

The Audit Committee has re-appointed Ernst & Young LLP as Apple’s
independent registered public accounting firm and as auditors of Apple’s
consolidated financial statements for 2017. Ernst & Young has served as
Apple’s independent registered public accounting firm since 2009. The
Audit Committee reviews the performance of the independent registered
public accounting firm annually.

At the Annual Meeting, our shareholders are being asked to ratify the
appointment of Ernst & Young as Apple’s independent registered public
accounting firm for 2017. In the event of a negative vote on this
proposal, the Audit Committee will reconsider its selection. Even if
this appointment is ratified, the Audit Committee may, in its
discretion, direct the appointment of a different independent registered
public accounting firm at any time during the year if the Audit
Committee determines that such a change would be in the best interests
of Apple and its shareholders. Representatives of Ernst & Young are
expected to be present at the Annual Meeting, will have an opportunity
to make a statement if they desire to do so, and will be available to
respond to questions.

Fees Paid to Auditors

The following table shows the fees billed by Apple’s independent
registered public accounting firm for the years ended September 24,
2016, and September 26, 2015.

 

								
*Ernst & Young* 	   	

*2016*

($)

	  	     	

*2015*

($)

	 
		
Audit Fees^(1) 	   	  	13,537,500 	   	     	  	12,414,100 	  
		
Audit-Related Fees^(2) 	   	  	653,000 	   	     	  	636,800 	  
		
Tax Fees^(3) 	   	  	1,863,700 	   	     	  	2,381,100 	  
		
All Other Fees^(4) 	   	  	62,200 	   	     	  	50,000 	  
		
	   	

 

	

 

	  	     	

 

	

 

	 
		
*Total* 	   	* * 	*      16,116,400* 	*  * 	     	* *
*    15,482,000* 	*  *

 

  	(1) 	

Audit fees relate to professional services rendered in connection with
the audit of Apple’s annual financial statements and internal control
over financial reporting, quarterly review of financial statements
included in Apple’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and audit services
provided in connection with other statutory and regulatory filings.

	 

 

  	(2) 	

Audit-related fees relate to professional services that are reasonably
related to the performance of the audit or review of Apple’s financial
statements.

	 

 

  	(3) 	

Tax fees relate to professional services rendered in connection with tax
compliance and preparation relating to tax returns, and tax audits, as
well as for tax consulting and planning services.

	 

 

  	(4) 	

All other fees relate to professional services not included in the
categories above, including services related to other regulatory
reporting requirements.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 50

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Non-Audit Services
Performed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Apple maintains an auditor independence policy that, among other things,
prohibits Apple’s independent registered public accounting firm from
performing non-financial consulting services, such as information
technology consulting and internal audit services. This policy mandates
that the Audit Committee approve in advance the audit and permissible
non-audit services to be performed by the independent registered public
accounting firm and the related budget, and that the Audit Committee be
provided with quarterly reporting on actual spending. This policy also
mandates that Apple may not enter into engagements with Apple’s
independent registered public accounting firm for non-audit services
without the express pre-approval of the Audit Committee. In accordance
with this policy, the Audit Committee pre-approved all services
performed by Apple’s independent registered public accounting firm in 2016.

/The Board recommends a vote FOR Proposal No. 2. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 2 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 51

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 3 – Advisory Vote to Approve Executive Compensation

In accordance with the requirements of Section 14A of the Exchange Act
and the related rules of the SEC, our shareholders have the opportunity
to cast an annual advisory vote to approve the compensation of our named
executive officers as disclosed pursuant to the SEC’s compensation
disclosure rules, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis,
the compensation tables, and the narrative disclosures that accompany
the compensation tables (a “say-on-pay proposal”).

Our executive compensation program is designed to be simple, effective,
and link pay to performance. It reflects the size, scope, and success of
Apple’s business, as well as the responsibilities of our named executive
officers. We believe our compensation program appropriately rewards
performance and is aligned with the long-term interests of our
shareholders. We encourage shareholders to read the Compensation
Discussion and Analysis, beginning on page 28 of this Proxy Statement,
which describes the details of our executive compensation program and
the decisions made by the Compensation Committee in 2016.

We had another year of strong financial results in 2016 with net sales
of $215.6 billion and operating income of $60.0 billion. These two
financial measures are used to evaluate executive performance under our
annual cash incentive program. For 2016, these measures declined from
our record-breaking 2015 levels, and were below the target performance
goals set by the Compensation Committee. The annual cash incentives paid
to our named executive officers for 2016 reflected these results with
below-target payouts. While the annual cash incentives are intended to
reward the achievement of short-term financial goals, our executive
compensation program emphasizes and rewards results over the long-term
through equity incentives that have a substantial performance-based
component and multi-year vesting schedules. For 2017, we placed an even
greater emphasis on long-term performance by increasing the
performance-based component of our equity incentives to 50%. We have
also implemented robust stock ownership guidelines that apply to all
executive officers.

We value the feedback provided by our shareholders, who supported our
executive compensation program at the 2016 annual meeting of
shareholders with approximately 95% of votes cast. We have discussions
with many of our shareholders on an ongoing basis regarding various
corporate governance topics, including executive compensation, and take
into account the views of shareholders regarding the design and
effectiveness of our executive compensation program.

Shareholders are being asked to approve the following resolution at the
Annual Meeting:

 

*RESOLVED,*that the compensation paid to the named executive officers,
as disclosed in this Proxy Statement pursuant to the SEC’s executive
compensation disclosure rules (which disclosure includes the
Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables, and the
narrative disclosures that accompany the compensation tables), is hereby
approved.

As an advisory vote, this proposal is not binding on Apple, the Board,
or the Compensation Committee. However, the Compensation Committee and
the Board value the opinions expressed by shareholders in their votes on
this proposal and will consider the outcome of the vote when making
future compensation decisions regarding named executive officers.

It is expected that the next say-on-pay vote will occur at the 2018
annual meeting of shareholders.

/The Board recommends a vote FOR Proposal No. 3. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 3 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 52

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 4 – Advisory Vote on Frequency of Say-on-Pay Votes

As described in Proposal No. 3 above, in accordance with the
requirements of Section 14A of the Exchange Act and the related rules of
the SEC, our shareholders have the opportunity to cast an advisory vote
to approve the compensation of our named executive officers. This
Proposal No. 4 affords shareholders the opportunity to cast an advisory
vote on how often we should include a say-on-pay proposal in our proxy
materials for future annual shareholder meetings or any special
shareholder meeting for which we must include executive compensation
information in the proxy statement for that meeting (a “say-on-pay
frequency proposal”). Under this Proposal No. 4, shareholders may vote
to have the say-on-pay vote every year, every two years, or every three
years.

Our shareholders voted on a similar proposal in 2011 with the majority
voting to hold the say-on-pay vote every year. We continue to believe
that say-on-pay votes should be conducted every year so that our
shareholders may annually express their views on our executive
compensation program.

As an advisory vote, this proposal is not binding on Apple, the Board,
or the Compensation Committee. However, the Compensation Committee and
the Board value the opinions expressed by shareholders in their votes on
this proposal and will consider the outcome of the vote when making
future decisions regarding the frequency of conducting a say-on-pay vote.

It is expected that the next vote on a say-on-pay frequency proposal
will occur at the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders.

Shareholders may cast their advisory vote to conduct advisory votes on
executive compensation every “1 Year,” “2 Years,” or “3 Years,” or
“Abstain.”

/The Board recommends a vote on Proposal No. 4 to hold say-on-pay votes
every 1 YEAR (as opposed to 2 years or 3 years). /

 

Vote Required

A plurality of the votes cast for Proposal No. 4 will determine the
shareholders’ preferred frequency for holding an advisory vote on
executive compensation. This means that the option for holding an
advisory vote every 1 year, 2 years, or 3 years receiving the greatest
number of votes will be considered the preferred frequency of the
shareholders.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 53

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 5 – Shareholder Proposal

Apple has been advised that the National Center for Public Policy
Research, 20 F Street, NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20001, which has
indicated it is a beneficial owner of at least $2,000 in market value of
Apple’s common stock, intends to submit the following proposal at the
Annual Meeting:

 

Charitable Giving – Recipients, Intents and Benefits

*Whereas,*in addition to providing benefits to society at-large,
charitable contributions should enhance the public image of our company.
Increased disclosure about these contributions would provide
shareholders with better insight into our corporate giving strategy.

*Resolved:*The proponent requests that the company provide an annual
report, omitting proprietary information and at reasonable cost,
disclosing: the company’s standards for choosing recipients of company
assets in the form of charitable contributions; the business rationale
and purpose for each of the charitable contributions, if any; personnel
participating in the decision to contribute; the benefits to society
at-large produced by company contributions; and a follow-up report
confirming the contribution was used for the purpose stated. The report
should be published on the company’s website.

*Supporting Statement*

Absent a system of accountability and transparency, some donated assets
may be misused and potentially harm the company’s reputation and
shareholder value. Current disclosure is insufficient to allow the
company’s Board and shareholders to evaluate the use of corporate assets
by outside organizations.

For example, the company has donated to the Center for American Progress
(CAP) – an openly left-wing organization that, as reported by the
Washington Post, made statements the head of the Anti-Defamation League
called “anti-Semitic and borderline anti-Semitic.”

Many support CAP’s leftist policy work, many others do not. Most
Americans would acknowledge that donating to an extremely ideological
organization in this highly polarized political climate is controversial.

Also, while education advocates would likely applaud the company’s
donations of iPads and other equipment to schools through its ConnectED
program, certain labor unions and their political allies would likely
oppose the company’s ConnectED donations to charter schools.

Furthermore, according to public reports, the company donated to the
Clinton Foundation. Public reports indicate that the FBI is
investigating or has investigated that organization for possible public
corruption. Media reports also strongly imply that individuals and
corporations may have sought preferential treatment from government
actors in exchange for donations to the Clinton Foundation. The Clinton
Foundation has many supporters who would support the company’s donation,
but it also has many detractors that would disapprove of this type of
giving.

Fuller disclosure would provide enhanced feedback opportunities from
which our company could make more fruitful decisions. Corporate
philanthropy should be transparent to better serve the interests of the
shareholders.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 54

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Apple’s Statement in Opposition to Proposal No. 5

The Board recommends a vote AGAINST Proposal No. 5.

Apple already provides detailed information about our core values and
our most significant charitable contributions on our website at
apple.com/diversity/creating-opportunitiesand apple.com/product-red.
Apple’s largest charitable contributions, which are made only following
extensive internal vetting and approval from one or more of our
executive officers, focus on some of the most important issues facing
our communities today. For example:

 

  	• 	  	

Apple supports the advancement of education. Apple has joined President
Obama’s ConnectED initiative and pledged $100 million to bring
technology and services into 114 underserved schools across the United
States. Under this program, we are donating an iPad to every student, a
Mac and iPad to every teacher, and an Apple TV to every classroom, as
well as services and professional development for teachers. There are
now more than 50,000 students learning, creating, and exploring on iPad
through our ConnectED commitment, and 96% of those students are eligible
for a free or reduced-price lunch program.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple supports health in the fight for an AIDS-free generation. When our
customers buy (PRODUCT)RED^™ Apple products, Apple contributes to the
Global Fund to provide counseling, testing, and medical care to those
most affected by the AIDS epidemic. So far, (PRODUCT)RED has raised over
$360 million for the Global Fund, including nearly $120 million through
Apple.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple supports inclusion and diversity. Apple has launched a multiyear,
$40 million partnership with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund. The
TMCF in turn creates opportunities for students from public and private
historically black colleges and universities who are pursuing careers in
the tech industry. Apple does not just give money to the TMCF; we work
collaboratively with the fund to advance its goals. For example, Apple
hired 33 students from these institutions as summer interns in 2016, and
as part of the TMCF partnership, also hosted them for a weeklong
immersion at Apple’s campus several months ahead of time to provide them
with a foundation of Apple culture and values to help pave the way for a
successful experience.

	 

Apple publicly discloses detailed information about the cost and impact
of these initiatives on our website.

Apple also supports many other organizations that share our core values,
such as American Red Cross, The Conservation Fund, Grace Hopper
Celebration of Women in Computing, Mercy Corps, National Center for
Women & Information Technology, National Society of Black Engineers, and
World Wildlife Fund. In September 2011, Apple implemented a matching
gifts program where Apple matches employee contributions of money, Apple
products, or volunteer time to eligible nonprofit organizations. In
certain cases, Apple matches cash contributions on a 2-for-1 basis, such
as in cases of natural disasters or other major humanitarian crises.
Apple has contributed to more than 11,000 different charitable
organizations through this matching gifts program.

Apple believes in leaving the world better than we found it. We actively
support our communities through philanthropic activities. The requested
report would do nothing to advance these philanthropic activities, and
would provide immaterial incremental additional information. Apple
believes it is better to focus our efforts on actively supporting our
communities than to divert time and resources to the preparation of a
report that would have limited value to shareholders.

/For all of the reasons above, the Board recommends a vote AGAINST
Proposal No. 5. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 5 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 55

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 6 – Shareholder Proposal

Apple has been advised that Mr. Antonio Avian Maldonado, II is a
beneficial owner of at least $2,000 in market value of Apple’s common
stock, and Zevin Asset Management, 11 Beacon Street, Suite 1125, Boston,
MA 02108, is a beneficial owner of at least $2,000 in market value of
Apple’s common stock. Mr. Maldonado’s address will be supplied promptly
upon oral or written request. Apple has been advised that Mr. Maldonado
and Zevin Asset Management intend to submit jointly the following
proposal at the Annual Meeting:

 

*RESOLVED:*

Shareholders request that the Board of Directors adopt an accelerated
recruitment policy requiring Apple Inc. (the “Company”) to increase the
diversity of senior management and its board of directors, two bodies
that presently fail to adequately represent diversity and inclusion
(particularly Hispanic, African American, Native American and other
people of color).

*Stockholder Supporting Statement*

The tech industry is characterized by the persistent and pervasive
underrepresentation of minorities and women in senior positions as
detailed in a 2014 U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission report.
According to a USA Today analysis of 2014 Computing Research Association
data, “[t]op universities turn out black and Hispanic computer science
and computer engineering graduates at twice the rate that leading
technology companies hire them.”^1 The Company is at an advantageous
position to be a leader in promoting diversity in senior management and
its board of directors, based on its size, breadth and position as one
of the largest companies in the world.

Shareholders are concerned that low levels of diversity at the Company’s
senior management and board level, as well as painstakingly slow
improvements, are a business risk.

According to the Company’s website, “Diversity is critical to innovation
and it is essential to Apple’s future.”^2 Further, the Company has
stated in multiple Proxy Statements that it is “committed to actively
seeking out highly qualified women and individuals from minority groups
to include in the pool from which board nominees are chosen.”^3

Shareholders believe that companies with comprehensive diversity
programs, and strong commitment to implementation, enhance their
long-term value, reducing the Company’s potential legal and reputational
risks associated with workplace discrimination and building a reputation
as a fair employer. Equally, shareholders believe the varied
perspectives of a diverse senior management and board of directors would
provide a competitive advantage in terms of creativity, innovation,
productivity and morale, while eliminating the limitations of
“groupthink”, as it would recognize the uniqueness of experience,
strength, culture and thought contributed by each; strengthening its
reputation and business. This is confirmed by McKinsey & Company, which
found companies with highly diverse executive teams had higher returns
on equity and earnings performance than those with low diversity, and a
May 2014 study found gender diverse teams were better at driving
“radical innovation”.^4 “Diversity helps companies react more
effectively to market shifts and new customer needs.”^5

 

 

^1
^http://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2014/10/12/silicon-valley-diversity-tech-hiring-computer-science-graduates-african-american-hispanic/14684211/


^2 ^https://www.apple.com/diversity/

^3
http://investor.apple.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=1193125-14-8074&cik=320193

^4 ^Diversity Matters, McKinsey & Company, November 2011.

^5 ^Diversity wins!, McKinsey & Company, November 2011.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 56

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Therefore, shareholders ask the Company to assist investors in
evaluating the company’s effectiveness in meeting its commitment to
equal opportunity and diversity in senior management and board of
directors, in a meaningful way that would not cause the company to
breach the assurances of confidentiality and privacy that it has made to
its employees. Currently shareholders have insufficient information to
determine if the company has been successful in expanding diversity.

We urge shareholders to vote FOR the proposal.

Apple’s Statement in Opposition to Proposal No. 6

//The Board recommends a vote AGAINST Proposal No. 6.

Our ongoing efforts to increase diversity are much broader than the
“accelerated recruitment policy” requested by this proposal, which is
focused only on Apple’s senior management and Board. At Apple, we take a
holistic view of inclusion and diversity that includes the varied
perspectives of our employees as well as app developers, suppliers, and
anyone who aspires to a future in tech. We also support diversity by
creating opportunities beyond Apple. Here are just a few examples:

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has joined President Obama’s ConnectED initiative and pledged $100
million to bring technology and services into 114 underserved schools
across the United States. Under this program, we are donating an iPad to
every student, a Mac and iPad to every teacher, and an Apple TV to every
classroom, as well as services and professional development for
teachers. There are now more than 50,000 students learning, creating,
and exploring on iPad through our ConnectED commitment, 92% of whom are
of Alaskan Native, Asian, Black, Hispanic, or Native American heritage.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has been working with the National Center for Women & Information
Technology for more than a decade, and in 2015, we became the first-ever
lifetime partner with the NCWIT, expanding a joint commitment to help
double the talent pool of women available for technology jobs by 2019.
This commitment includes a new initiative targeted towards giving
Latinas the inspiration to explore tech studies and careers.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple launched a multiyear, $40 million partnership with the Thurgood
Marshall College Fund. The TMCF in turn creates opportunities for
students from public and private historically black colleges and
universities who are pursuing careers in the tech industry. Apple does
not just give money to the TMCF; we work collaboratively with the fund
to advance its goals. For example, Apple hired 33 students from these
institutions as summer interns in 2016, and as part of the TMCF
partnership, also hosted them for a weeklong immersion at Apple’s campus
several months ahead of time to provide them with a foundation of Apple
culture and values to help pave the way for a successful experience.

	 

Apple publicly discloses information about our inclusion and diversity
initiatives and detailed statistics about our progress to date at
apple.com/diversity. As disclosed on this dedicated website, our hiring
trends over the last three years show steady progress in attracting more
women and under-represented minorities (defined as groups whose
representation in tech has been historically low — Black, Hispanic,
Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Other Pacific Islander). In
addition, Apple is cultivating diverse leadership and tech talent
through on-campus training, events, and programs.

The examples above are evidence of the high level of support from our
senior management of our holistic view of inclusion and diversity.

Our Board shares this commitment to increase diversity. Pursuant to its
charter, the Nominating Committee of the Board actively seeks out highly
qualified women and individuals from minority groups to include in the
pool from which Board nominees are chosen. Our current eight-person
Board includes two women and members of diverse ethnic groups.

The “accelerated recruiting policy” called for by this proposal is not
necessary or appropriate because we have already demonstrated our
commitment to a holistic view of inclusion and diversity and made
detailed information about our inclusion and diversity initiatives, and
the progress we have made with respect to these initiatives, available
on our website

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 57

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

at apple.com/diversity. A substantially similar proposal was presented
by Mr. Maldonado at the 2016 annual meeting of shareholders and received
the support of less than 5% of votes cast. We believe that the low level
of support for this proposal last year reflects the positive recognition
by our shareholders of Apple’s significant commitment to inclusion and
diversity.

/For all of the reasons above, the Board recommends a vote AGAINST
Proposal No. 6. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 6 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 58

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 7 — Shareholder Proposal

Apple has been advised that Mr. James McRitchie, 9295 Yorkship Court,
Elk Grove, CA 95758, who has indicated he is a beneficial owner of at
least $2,000 in market value of Apple’s common stock, intends to submit
the following proposal at the Annual Meeting:

 

Proposal 7 – Shareholder Proxy Access Amendments

RESOLVED: Shareholders of Apple, Inc. (the “Company”) ask the board of
directors (the “Board”) to amend its “Proxy Access for Director
Nominations” bylaw, and any other associated documents, to include
essential elements for substantial implementation to better facilitate
meaningful proxy access by more shareholders as follows:

  1. The number of “Shareholder Nominees” eligible to appear in proxy
materials shall be 25% of the directors then serving or 2, whichever is
greater. Current bylaws restrict Shareholder Nominees to 20% of
directors. Under the current 8-member board, shareholder nominees are
currently limited to nominating one. Any shareholder nominee elected
under the current bylaws could be easily isolated.

  2. No limitation shall be placed on the number of shareholders that
can aggregate their shares to achieve the 3% “Ownership Requirements”
for “Eligible Shareholders.” Under current provisions, even if the 20
largest public pension funds were able to aggregate their shares, they
would not meet the 3% criteria at most of companies examined by the
Council of Institutional Investors. Allowing an unlimited number of
shareholders to aggregate shares will facilitate participation by
individuals and institutional investors in meeting the Ownership
Requirements.

  3. No limitation shall be imposed on the re-nomination of “Shareholder
Nominees” based on the number or percentage of votes received in any
election. Such limitations do not facilitate the shareholders’
traditional state law rights and add unnecessary complexity.

Supporting Statement:

The SEC’s universal proxy access Rule 14a-11
(https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2010/33-9136.pdf) was vacated after a
court decision regarding the SEC’s cost-benefit analysis. Therefore,
proxy access rights must be established on a company-by-company basis.
Subsequently, Proxy Access in the United States: Revisiting the Proposed
SEC Rule (http://www.cfapubs.org/doi/pdf/10.2469/ccb.v2014.n9.1) a
cost-benefit analysis by CFA Institute, found proxy access would
“benefit both the markets and corporate boardrooms, with little cost or
disruption,” raising US market capitalization by up to $140.3 billion.
Public Versus Private Provision of Governance: The Case of Proxy Access
(http://ssrn.com/abstract=2635695) found a 0.5 percent average increase
in shareholder value for proxy access targeted firms.

Proxy Access: Best Practices

(http://www.cii.org/files/publications/misc/08_05_15_Best%20Practices%20-%20Proxy%20Access.pdf)
by the Council of Institutional Investors, “highlights the most
troublesome provisions” in recently implemented proxy access bylaws.

Although the Company’s board adopted a proxy access bylaw in 2015, it
contains troublesome provisions, as outlined above, that significantly
impair the ability of shareholders to participate as Eligible
Shareholders, the ability of Shareholder Nominees to effectively serve
if elected, and the ability of Shareholder Nominees to run again if they
receive less than 25% of the vote. Adoption of all the requested
amendments would largely remedy these issues and would better ensure
meaningful proxy access by more shareholders.

Increase shareholder value

Vote for Shareholder Proxy Access Amendments – Proposal 7

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 59

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Apple’s Statement in Opposition to Proposal No. 7

/The Board recommends a vote AGAINST Proposal No. 7. /

Our current corporate governance framework reflects our commitment to
robust, balanced governance practices combined with responsiveness and
accountability to shareholders. Our existing proxy access bylaws, which
Apple proactively adopted in 2015 and further enhanced in 2016,
establishes a prudent and effective mechanism for proxy access, making
adoption of this proposal unnecessary and unwarranted.

In 2015, after careful consideration of the varying viewpoints and
feedback offered by many shareholders, the Board amended Apple’s bylaws
to adopt proxy access. The bylaws permit a shareholder, or a group of up
to 20 shareholders, owning at least 3% of Apple’s outstanding shares of
common stock continuously for at least three years, to nominate and
include in Apple’s annual proxy materials director nominees constituting
up to 20% of the Board, provided that the shareholder(s) and nominee(s)
satisfy the procedural and eligibility requirements specified in the
bylaws. The Board currently consists of eight directors, and
shareholders may nominate one proxy access candidate.

But we did not stop there. After initially amending our bylaws to
provide for proxy access, we continued to closely monitor proxy access
developments and reach out to many of our largest shareholders,
governance experts, and advisors to discuss evolving market practice and
trends and the preferences of our shareholders. As a result of these
engagements, in December 2016, the Board adopted enhancements to Apple’s
bylaws to streamline our proxy access framework and make it easier for
shareholders to nominate proxy access candidates. These enhancements
included the following changes:

 

  	• 	  	

Apple no longer requires shareholders who nominate a proxy access
candidate to recall loaned shares and hold them through the annual
meeting. Ownership of loaned shares is deemed to continue if the
shareholder(s) has the power to recall the loaned shares on five
business days’ notice.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple increased the availability of proxy access by limiting the
circumstances under which the maximum number of proxy access candidates
is reduced. For example, Apple no longer reduces the number of proxy
access candidates when an incumbent director was nominated through proxy
access in the last two years and is subsequently supported by the Board
for re-election.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Shareholders may now re-nominate a proxy access candidate regardless of
the level of support received at the annual meeting. This change renders
moot the amendment requested in point 3 of the proposal.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has extended the deadline by which nominating shareholders and
proxy access candidates must provide certain information to Apple to ten
business days from five business days.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has narrowed the scope of a nominating shareholder’s
indemnification obligations to legal and regulatory violations arising
out of a nominating shareholder’s actions or communications with Apple
shareholders or out of information provided by a nominating shareholder
to Apple.

	 

 

  	• 	  	

Apple has limited the discretion of the Board to unilaterally interpret
the proxy access provisions.

	 

We believe our proxy access framework strikes the right balance between
promoting shareholder nomination rights and protecting the interests of
our shareholders. Our framework is a reasonable, usable one that
reinforces the Board’s accountability and provides broad discretion to
shareholders to nominate candidates of their choosing, while mitigating
the risk of misuse of proxy access, including utilization by
shareholders pursuing objectives that are not broadly supported by other
shareholders. Implementation of the changes requested by the proposal
beyond those Apple has already made would make Apple an outlier among
public companies that have adopted proxy access.

Beyond mere proxy access, Apple’s bylaws also keep directors accountable
to shareholders by providing for an automatic termination of service of
any incumbent director who fails to be elected by an affirmative vote of
a majority of the shares represented and voting in an uncontested
election. Some companies merely require a director to submit a
resignation letter

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 60

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

under similar circumstances, and give the board of directors discretion
as to whether to accept the resignation – potentially allowing the
director to remain on the board indefinitely. Apple believes that our
process, which results in automatic termination of the director’s term,
fosters greater accountability and responsiveness to shareholders.

The Board has also shown an ongoing commitment to board refreshment and
to having highly qualified directors who bring diverse perspectives to
the Board’s decision-making processes. Through the Board’s robust
director nomination and annual self-evaluation process, two new
directors have been added since 2014.

We are committed to ensuring effective, balanced corporate governance
while also continually engaging with shareholders. This is evidenced by
Apple’s proactive adoption of proxy access in 2015 and
shareholder-favorable enhancements in 2016, and by the other actions
Apple has taken to ensure that shareholders are given a voice, many of
which are described in this Proxy Statement. The Board believes that
these objectives are being achieved through Apple’s current governance
processes and that changing our proxy access framework as outlined by
the proponent is therefore unnecessary and unwarranted.

/For all of the reasons above, the Board recommends a vote AGAINST
Proposal No. 7. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 7 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 61

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 8 – Shareholder Proposal

Apple has been advised that Mr. Jing Zhao, 262 Altadena Circle, Bay
Point, CA 94565, who has indicated he is a beneficial owner of at least
$2,000 in market value of Apple’s common stock, intends to submit the
following proposal at the Annual Meeting:

 

Shareholder Proposal on Executive Compensation Reform

Resolved: shareholders recommend that Apple Inc. engage multiple outside
independent experts or resources from the general public to reform its
executive compensation principles and practices.

*Supporting Statement*

According to Apple Notice of 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, “Since
2014, the Compensation Committee has engaged the services of Pay
Governance LLC,… on matters for which the Compensation Committee is
responsible.” (p.26). However, any single consulting firm cannot
represent the general public, such as independent scholars, think tanks,
unions and academic societies, to advise fair, just and ethical
compensation principles. The failure of our executive compensation
principles and practices is clearly shown in the same $1,000,000 salary,
the same $20,000,105 stock award and the same $4,000,000 non-equity
incentive plan compensation each in 2015 to our five of six named
executive officers (p.35). What is use of the Compensation Committee
when it could not differentiate the contribution of the tremendously
different functions of the CFO, the Retail and Online Stores SVP, the
Internet Software and Services SVP, the Hardware Engineering SVP and the
Secretary of our company?

As Professor Thomas Piketty (Capital in the Twenty- First Century,
trans. Arthur Goldhammer. Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard
University Press, 2014) stated, “there is absolutely no doubt that the
increase of inequality in the United States contributed to the nation’s
financial instability.” (p.297) “Let me return now to the cause of
rising inequality in the United States. The increase was largely the
result of an unprecedented increase in wage inequality and in particular
the emergence of extremely high remunerations at the summit of the wage
hierarchy, particularly among top managers of large firms.” (p.298)
“Because it is objectively difficult to measure individual contributions
to a firm’s output, top managers found it relatively easy to persuade
boards and stockholders that they were worth the money, especially since
the members of compensation committees were often chosen in a rather
incestuous manner.” (p.510)

For the purpose of this proposal, the Board and the Compensation
Committee have the flexibility to select multiple independent experts or
sources.

Apple’s Statement in Opposition to Proposal No. 8

/The Board recommends a vote AGAINST Proposal No. 8. /

Our executive compensation program is designed to attract, motivate, and
retain a talented, entrepreneurial, and creative team of executives who
will provide leadership for Apple’s success in dynamic and competitive
markets. Internal pay equity among our executive officers does not
demonstrate a failure of compensation principles and practices; rather,
it is a hallmark of the team-based approach of our executive
compensation program. Our executive officers are expected to operate as
a high-performing team, and we believe that generally awarding the same
base salary, annual cash incentive, and long-term equity awards to each
of our executive officers, other than the CEO, successfully supports
this goal.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 62

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Apple’s Compensation Committee is responsible for Apple’s compensation
and incentive plans and programs, approves all compensation for Apple’s
executive officers, and acts as the administrative committee for Apple’s
employee equity plans. The Compensation Committee consists entirely of
independent directors who have various resources and tools at their
disposal to assist in the performance of their duties without the
addition of multiple outside independent experts or resources from the
general public whose priorities and interests may differ from those of
Apple or our shareholders.

Under the terms of its charter, the Compensation Committee has the
right, in its sole discretion, at any time to retain or obtain advice,
reports, or opinions from such internal and external counsel,
compensation consultants, and other experts and advisors as it deems
necessary or appropriate to assist it in the full performance of its
functions. For many years, the Compensation Committee has retained an
independent compensation consultant, and has engaged the services of Pay
Governance since 2014. Pay Governance works with the Compensation
Committee to develop effective executive pay programs based on its
knowledge of Apple’s industry and business needs. Pay Governance
provides advice to the Compensation Committee on a range of external
market factors, including evolving compensation trends, appropriate peer
companies, and market survey data. Pay Governance also provides general
observations about our compensation programs and management
recommendations regarding the amount and form of compensation for our
executive officers.

Each year, the Compensation Committee conducts a review of Apple’s
executive compensation program and takes into account numerous factors,
including the advice of its independent compensation consultant,
management recommendations, pay practices and program designs at peer
companies, shareholder feedback, and the Compensation Committee’s own
business judgment, which is informed by the significant experience of
its members. Shareholders also have an opportunity each year to cast an
advisory vote on the compensation of our named executive officers, the
results of which the Compensation Committee considers each year when
reviewing our executive compensation program. We believe the alignment
of our executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders
is reflected by the fact that approximately 95% of votes cast on our
say-on-pay proposal at the 2016 annual meeting of shareholders voted to
approve the compensation paid to our named executive officers.

Apple believes this Proposal No. 8 is unnecessary, not consistent with
market practice, and would provide no benefit to Apple or our
shareholders. The Compensation Committee already has extensive knowledge
and resources at its disposal to establish appropriate executive
compensation principles and practices for Apple that are aligned with
the interests of our shareholders.

/For all of the reasons above, the Board recommends a vote AGAINST
Proposal No. 8. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 8 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 63

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Proposal No. 9 – Shareholder Proposal

Apple has been advised that Mr. Kenneth Steiner, 14 Stoner Ave., 2M,
Great Neck, NY 11021, who has indicated he is a beneficial owner of at
least $2,000 in market value of Apple’s common stock, intends to submit
the following proposal at the Annual Meeting:

 

Proposal 9 – Executives To Retain Significant Stock

Resolved: Shareholders urge that our executive pay committee adopt a
policy requiring senior executives to retain a significant percentage of
stock acquired through equity pay programs until reaching normal
retirement age and to report to shareholders regarding the policy before
our Company’s next annual meeting. For the purpose of this policy,
normal retirement age would be an age of at least 60 and be determined
by our executive pay committee. Shareholders recommend a share retention
percentage requirement of 75% of net after-tax shares.

This single unified policy shall prohibit hedging transactions for
shares subject to this policy which are not sales but reduce the risk of
loss to the executive. Otherwise our directors might be able to avoid
the impact of this proposal. This policy shall supplement any other
share ownership requirements that have been established for senior
executives, and should be implemented without violating current company
contractual obligations or the terms of any current pay or benefit plan.

Requiring senior executives to hold a significant portion of stock
obtained through executive pay plans would focus our executives on our
company’s long-term success. A Conference Board Task Force report stated
that hold-to-retirement requirements give executives “an ever-growing
incentive to focus on long-term stock price performance.”

Please vote to protect shareholder value:

*Executives To Retain Significant Stock – Proposal 9 *

Apple’s Statement in Opposition to Proposal No. 9

/The Board recommends a vote AGAINST Proposal No. 9. /

Apple believes that our long-term success depends largely on our ability
to attract and retain a high-performing executive team. Experienced
personnel in the technology industry are in high demand, and competition
for executive talent is intense. A policy that would require senior
executives to hold 75% of the net after-tax shares from their equity
awards until reaching normal retirement age is excessive, not consistent
with current practice among our peer groups, and would put Apple at a
competitive disadvantage for recruiting and retaining talented executives.

The Board believes that the Compensation Committee is the governing body
best suited to formulate Apple’s executive compensation policies. As
described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, our executive
compensation program emphasizes long-term shareholder value creation by
using both time-based and performance-based RSUs to deliver long-term
compensation incentives. The Compensation Committee believes this is the
most effective way to attract and retain a talented executive team and
align executives’ interests with those of shareholders. As a result,
Apple’s executive compensation program is weighted considerably toward
long-term equity awards rather than cash compensation and our executives
hold significant unvested RSUs at any particular time. The Compensation
Committee believes that this practice creates a substantial retention
incentive, encourages our executives to focus on Apple’s long-term
success, and aligns with the long-term interests of our shareholders.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 64

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Apple already has robust stock ownership guidelines for the CEO, the
executive officers, and the Non-Employee Directors. Under the
guidelines, Mr. Cook is expected to own shares of Apple common stock
that have a value equal to ten times his base salary. This stock
ownership requirement is among the highest of any CEO in the Fortune
100. Within five years after first becoming subject to the guidelines,
each executive officer is expected to own shares of Apple common stock
that have a value equal to three times the executive officer’s base
salary and each Non-Employee Director is expected to own shares of Apple
common stock that have a value equal to five times the annual cash
retainer for serving as a director.

In addition to stock ownership guidelines, Apple maintains other
significant governance policies relating to Apple stock held by
executives. These include an anti-hedging policy for all employees and a
prohibition against short sales of Apple common stock by executive
officers and directors. Moreover, RSUs granted to executives are subject
to the recoupment provisions of Apple’s standard forms of RSU agreement,
which provide that Apple may recover any shares or other amounts
obtained from RSUs in the event the executive commits a felony while
employed by Apple, or engages in a breach of confidentiality, commits an
act of theft, embezzlement or fraud, or materially breaches any
agreement with Apple while employed by Apple or at any time thereafter.

Apple believes this Proposal No. 9 is unnecessary and would provide no
benefit to Apple or our shareholders. Apple’s current executive
compensation program and governance practices already create a
substantial retention incentive and encourage Apple’s executives to
focus on Apple’s long-term business objectives, stock price performance,
and shareholders’ interests.

/For all of the reasons above, the Board recommends a vote AGAINST
Proposal No. 9. /

 

Vote Required

Approval of Proposal No. 9 requires the affirmative vote of (i) a
majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting at the
Annual Meeting and (ii) a majority of the shares required to constitute
a quorum.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 65

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Other Matters

Apple knows of no other matters to be submitted to the shareholders at
the Annual Meeting, other than the proposals referred to in this Proxy
Statement. If any other matters properly come before the shareholders at
the Annual Meeting, it is the intention of the persons named on the
proxy to vote the shares represented thereby on such matters in
accordance with their best judgment.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 66

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Audit and Finance Committee Report

The Audit and Finance Committee consists of four members: Ron Sugar, who
serves as the Chair of the Committee, James Bell, Art Levinson, and Sue
Wagner. Each member is an independent director under NASDAQ, NYSE, and
SEC audit committee structure and membership requirements. The Audit and
Finance Committee has certain duties and powers as described in its
written charter adopted by the Board. A copy of the charter is available
on Apple’s website at investor.apple.com/corporate-governance.cfm.

The Audit and Finance Committee assists the Board’s oversight and
monitoring of:

 

  	• 	  	

Apple’s financial statements and other financial information provided by
Apple to its shareholders and others;

	 

  	• 	  	

compliance with legal, regulatory, and public disclosure requirements;

	 

  	• 	  	

the independent auditors, including their qualifications and independence;

	 

  	• 	  	

Apple’s system of internal controls, including the internal audit function;

	 

  	• 	  	

treasury and finance matters;

	 

  	• 	  	

enterprise risk management, privacy, and data security; and

	 

  	• 	  	

the auditing, accounting, and financial reporting process generally.

	 

The Audit and Finance Committee does not itself prepare financial
statements or perform audits, and its members are not auditors or
certifiers of Apple’s financial statements.

The Audit and Finance Committee is responsible for the appointment,
compensation, retention, and oversight of the work performed by Apple’s
independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP. In
fulfilling its oversight responsibility, the Audit and Finance Committee
carefully reviews the policies and procedures for the engagement of the
independent registered public accounting firm, including the scope of
the audit, audit fees, auditor independence matters, performance of the
independent auditors, and the extent to which the independent registered
public accounting firm may be retained to perform non-audit services.

Apple maintains an auditor independence policy that, among other things,
prohibits Apple’s independent registered public accounting firm from
performing non-financial consulting services, such as information
technology consulting and internal audit services. This policy mandates
that the Audit and Finance Committee approve in advance the audit and
permissible non-audit services to be performed by the independent
registered public accounting firm and the related budget, and that the
Audit and Finance Committee be provided with quarterly reporting on
actual spending. This policy also mandates that Apple may not enter into
engagements with Apple’s independent registered public accounting firm
for non-audit services without the express pre-approval of the Audit and
Finance Committee.

The Audit and Finance Committee has reviewed and discussed the audited
financial statements for the year ended September 24, 2016 with Apple’s
management and Ernst & Young, Apple’s independent registered public
accounting firm. The Audit and Finance Committee has also discussed with
Ernst & Young the matters required to be discussed by Auditing Standard
No. 1301, “Communications with Audit Committees” issued by the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).

The Audit and Finance Committee also has received and reviewed the
written disclosures and the letter from Ernst & Young required by
applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding Ernst & Young’s
communications with the Audit and Finance Committee concerning
independence, and has discussed with Ernst & Young its independence.

Based on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the Audit and
Finance Committee recommended to the Board that the financial statements
referred to above be included in Apple’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended September 24, 2016 for filing with the SEC.

Members of the Audit and Finance Committee

Ron Sugar (Chair) | James Bell | Art Levinson | Sue Wagner

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 67

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Security Ownership of

Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The following table shows certain information as of December 30, 2016
(the “Table Date”), unless otherwise indicated, with respect to the
beneficial ownership of Apple’s common stock by: (i) each person Apple
believes beneficially holds more than 5% of the outstanding shares of
Apple’s common stock based solely on Apple’s review of SEC filings;
(ii) each director and nominee; (iii) each named executive officer
listed in the table entitled “Summary Compensation Table—2016, 2015, and
2014” under the section entitled “Executive Compensation”; and (iv) all
directors and executive officers as a group. As of the Table Date,
5,257,816,000 shares of Apple’s common stock were issued and
outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named as beneficial
owners of Apple’s common stock have sole voting power and sole
investment power with respect to the shares indicated as beneficially
owned. In addition, unless otherwise indicated, the address for each
person named below is c/o Apple Inc., 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino,
California 95014.

 

						
*Name of Beneficial Owner* 	   	

*Shares of Common Stock*

*Beneficially Owned*^(1) **

	  	     	

*Percent of*

*Common Stock*

*Outstanding*

		
*The Vanguard Group* 	   	^  	322,968,066^(2) 	^   	     	6.14%
		
*BlackRock, Inc.* 	   	^  	315,425,945^(3) 	^   	     	6.00%
		
*Angela Ahrendts* 	   	^  	95,042^(4) 	^   	     	        *
		
*James Bell* 	   	^  	4,118^(5) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Tim Cook* 	   	^  	1,039,809^(6) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Eddy Cue* 	   	^  	1,464^(7) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Al Gore* 	   	^  	721,353^(8) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Bob Iger* 	   	^  	47,225^(9) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Andrea Jung* 	   	^  	128,773^(10) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Art Levinson* 	   	^  	1,397,257^(11) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Luca Maestri* 	   	^  	4,432^(12) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Dan Riccio* 	   	^  	10,942^(13) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Bruce Sewell* 	   	^  	235,793^(14) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Ron Sugar* 	   	^  	19,939^(15) 	^   	     	        *
		
*Sue Wagner* 	   	^  	10,034^(16) 	^   	     	        *
		
All current executive officers and directors as a group (17 persons)
   	^  	4,399,147^(17) 	^   	     	        *

 

  	(1) 	

Represents shares of Apple’s common stock held, options held that were
exercisable at the Table Date or within 60 days thereafter, and RSUs
held that will vest within 60 days after the Table Date. Does not
include RSUs that vest more than 60 days after the Table Date. RSUs are
awards granted by Apple and payable, subject to vesting requirements, in
shares of Apple’s common stock.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 68

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

  	(2) 	

Represents shares of Apple’s common stock beneficially owned as of
December 31, 2015, based on a Schedule 13G/A filed on February 10, 2016,
by The Vanguard Group. In such filing, The Vanguard Group lists its
address as 100 Vanguard Blvd., Malvern, PA 19355, and indicates that it
has sole voting power with respect to 10,477,437 shares of Apple’s
common stock, shared voting power with respect to 571,100 shares of
Apple’s common stock, sole dispositive power with respect to 311,845,773
shares of Apple’s common stock, and shared dispositive power with
respect to 11,122,293 shares of Apple’s common stock.

	 

 

  	(3) 	

Represents shares of Apple’s common stock beneficially owned as of
December 31, 2015, based on a Schedule 13G/A filed on January 25, 2016,
by BlackRock, Inc. In such filing, BlackRock, Inc. lists its address as
55 East 52nd Street, New York, NY 10055, and indicates that it has sole
voting power with respect to 264,930,614 shares of Apple’s common stock,
shared voting power with respect to 44,794 shares of Apple’s common
stock, sole dispositive power with respect to 315,381,151 shares of
Apple’s common stock, and shared dispositive power with respect to
44,794 shares of Apple common stock.

	 

 

  	(4) 	

Excludes 659,303 unvested RSUs held by Ms. Ahrendts that are not
scheduled to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	(5) 	

Includes 2,580 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Bell that are scheduled to vest
on February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(6) 	

Represents 1,039,809 shares of Apple’s common stock held in the name of
Mr. Cook’s trust and excludes 3,500,000 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Cook
that are not scheduled to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	(7) 	

Represents 1,464 shares of Apple’s common stock held in the name of
Mr. Cue’s trust and excludes 620,803 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Cue that
are not scheduled to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	(8) 	

Includes 275,779 shares of Apple’s common stock that Mr. Gore has the
right to acquire by exercise of stock options and 2,580 unvested RSUs
held by Mr. Gore that are scheduled to vest on February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(9) 	

Includes 525 shares of Apple’s common stock held by Mr. Iger’s spouse,
and 2,580 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Iger that are scheduled to vest on
February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(10) 	

Includes 109,590 shares of Apple’s common stock that Ms. Jung has the
right to acquire by exercise of stock options and 2,580 unvested RSUs
held by Ms. Jung that are scheduled to vest on February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(11) 	

Includes 14,000 shares of Apple’s common stock held by Dr. Levinson’s
spouse, 247,394 shares of Apple’s common stock that Dr. Levinson has the
right to acquire by exercise of stock options and 2,580 unvested RSUs
held by Dr. Levinson that are scheduled to vest on February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(12) 	

Excludes 592,237 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Maestri that are not
scheduled to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	(13) 	

Excludes 620,803 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Riccio that are not scheduled
to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	(14) 	

Excludes 620,803 unvested RSUs held by Mr. Sewell that are not scheduled
to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	(15) 	

Includes 2,580 unvested RSUs held by Dr. Sugar that are scheduled to
vest on February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(16) 	

Includes 1,800 shares of Apple’s common stock held by Ms. Wagner’s
spouse and 2,580 unvested RSUs held by Ms. Wagner that are scheduled to
vest on February 1, 2017.

	 

 

  	(17) 	

Includes 632,763 shares of Apple’s common stock that executive officers
and directors have the right to acquire by exercise of stock options and
18,060 unvested RSUs that are scheduled to vest within 60 days after the
Table Date. Excludes 8,704,803 unvested RSUs held by executive officers
that are not scheduled to vest within 60 days after the Table Date.

	 

 

  	* 	

Represents less than 1% of the issued and outstanding shares of Apple’s
common stock as of the Table Date.

	 

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 69

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires Apple’s officers and
directors, and persons who own more than 10% of a registered class of
Apple’s equity securities, to file reports of securities ownership and
changes in such ownership with the SEC. Officers, directors, and greater
than 10% shareholders also are required by SEC rules to furnish Apple
with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file.

Based solely upon a review of the copies of such forms furnished to
Apple, and on written representations from the reporting persons, Apple
believes that all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to
Apple’s directors and officers were timely met during 2016, except that
one Form 4 was filed for Chris Kondo on August 5, 2016 with respect to
the disposition of 9,829 shares of Apple’s common stock on August 2, 2016.

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 70

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table shows information, as of September 24, 2016,
concerning shares of Apple’s common stock authorized for issuance under
Apple’s equity compensation plans. As of September 24, 2016, other than
as described below, no equity securities were authorized for issuance
under equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders.

 

												
   	   	

*Number of Securities to
be Issued Upon Exercise
of Outstanding Options,
Warrants and  Rights*

(a)

	  	     	

*Weighted-Average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding Options,
Warrants and
Rights*^(1)(2) **

($)(b)

	  	   	

*Number of Securities
Remaining Available for
Future Issuance Under
Equity Compensation Plans*

(Excluding Securities
Reflected in Column (a))

(c)

	 
Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders^(3) 	   	^ 
100,011,348^(4) 	^   	     	  	17.41 	   	   	^  	434,520,714^(5) 	^  

 

  	(1) 	

The weighted-average exercise price is calculated based solely on the
exercise prices of the outstanding stock options and does not reflect
the shares that will be issued upon the vesting of outstanding awards of
RSUs, which have no exercise price.

	 

 

  	(2) 	

The weighted-average remaining contractual term of Apple’s outstanding
stock options as of September 24, 2016 was 3.7 years.

	 

 

  	(3) 	

This table does not include equity awards that have been assumed by
Apple in connection with the acquisition of other companies. As of
September 24, 2016, an additional 142,900 shares of Apple’s common stock
were subject to outstanding stock options assumed in connection with
acquisitions of other companies (with a weighted-average exercise price
of $5.95 per share). Shares issued in respect of these assumed awards do
not count against the share limits of the 2014 Plan.

	 

 

  	(4) 	

This number includes the following: 76,308,442 shares subject to
outstanding awards granted under the 2014 Plan, of which 263,214 shares
were subject to outstanding stock options and 76,045,228 shares were
subject to outstanding RSU awards; 23,052,083 shares subject to
outstanding awards granted under the Apple Inc. 2003 Employee Stock
Plan, of which 26,731 shares were subject to outstanding stock options
and 23,025,352 shares were subject to outstanding RSU awards; and
650,823 shares subject to outstanding awards granted under the Director
Plan, of which 632,763 shares were subject to outstanding stock options
and 18,060 shares were subject to outstanding RSU awards.

	 

 

  	(5) 	

This number includes 386,365,390 shares available for issuance under the
2014 Plan, 47,026,765 shares reserved for issuance under the Employee
Stock Purchase Plan, and 1,128,559 shares available for issuance under
the Director Plan. Shares issued in respect of awards other than stock
options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2014 Plan and
the Director Plan count against the shares available for grant under the
applicable plan as two shares for every share granted.

	 

Dated: January 6, 2017

 

Apple Inc. | 2017 Proxy Statement | 71

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

Directions to the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

 

		
LOGO 	  	

 

Take Interstate 280 (south from San Francisco, north from San Jose)

 

Exit at De Anza Boulevard

 

Turn south onto De Anza Boulevard toward Cupertino

 

Turn left onto Mariani Avenue

 

Continue on Mariani, which leads into the Apple parking lot

 

Proceed to Town Hall (Building 4)

 

Attendance at the Annual Meeting is limited to shareholders. Admission
to the Annual Meeting will be on a first-come, first-served basis. In
the interest of saving time and money, Apple has opted to provide the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 24, 2016 in lieu
of producing a glossy annual report.

 

 

		
LOGO 	   	LOGO           

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

 

 

 

*LOGO *

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

LOGO

 

Apple Inc.
C123456789
IMPORTANT ANNUAL MEETING INFORMATION
000004
ENDORSEMENT LINE SACKPACK
000000000.000000 ext
000000000.000000 ext
000000000.000000 ext
000000000.000000 ext
000000000.000000 ext
000000000.000000 ext
MR A SAMPLE
DESIGNATION (IF ANY)
ADD 1
ADD 2
ADD 3
ADD 4
ADD 5
ADD 6
Electronic Voting Instructions You can vote by Internet or telephone!
Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week!
Instead of mailing your proxy, you may choose one of the voting methods
outlined below to vote your proxy.
VALIDATION DETAILS ARE LOCATED BELOW IN THE TITLE BAR.
Proxies submitted by the Internet or telephone must be received by 1:00
a.m., Eastern Time, on February 28, 2017.
Vote by Internet
Log on to the Internet and go to
www.investorvote.com/AAPL
Follow the steps outlined on the secured website.
Vote by telephone
Call toll free 1-800-652-VOTE (8683) within the USA, US territories &
Canada any time on a touch tone telephone. There is NO CHARGE to you for
the call.
Follow the instructions provided by the recorded message.
Using a black ink pen, mark your votes with an X as shown in this
example. Please do not write outside the designated areas. X
Apple Inc. Annual Shareholder Meeting Proxy Card
1234 5678 9012 345
IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE
PERFORATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE.
A Proposals—The Board of Directors recommends a vote FOR all the listed
nominees, FOR Proposals 2 and 3, and 1 YEAR for Proposal 4.
1. The election to Apple’s Board of Directors of the eight nominees
named in the Proxy Statement
For Against Abstain For Against Abstain For Against Abstain
01 - JAMES BELL
04 - BOB IGER
07 - RON SUGAR
02 - TIM COOK
05 - ANDREA JUNG
08 - SUE WAGNER
03 - AL GORE
06 - ART LEVINSON
For Against Abstain
2. Ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Apple’s
independent registered public accounting firm for 2017
For Against Abstain
3. Advisory vote to approve executive compensation
1 Year 2 Years 3 Years Abstain
4. Advisory vote on the frequency of shareholder votes on executive
compensation
B Shareholder Proposals—The Board of Directors recommends a vote AGAINST
Proposals 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
For Against Abstain
For Against Abstain
5. A shareholder proposal entitled “Charitable Giving - Recipients,
Intents and Benefits”
6. A shareholder proposal regarding diversity among our senior
management and board of directors
7. A shareholder proposal entitled “Shareholder Proxy Access Amendments”
8. A shareholder proposal entitled “Executive Compensation Reform”
9. A shareholder proposal entitled “Executives to Retain Significant Stock”
IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOU MUST COMPLETE SECTIONS A - D ON BOTH SIDES OF
THIS CARD.
C 1234567890 J N T
1 U P X 2 9 9 1 6 8 1
MR A SAMPLE (THIS AREA IS SET UP TO ACCOMMODATE
140 CHARACTERS) MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND
MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND
MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND

------------------------------------------------------------------------


          Table of Contents <#toc>

LOGO

 

Apple Inc.
2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
February 28, 2017
9:00 a.m. Pacific Time
1 Infinite Loop, Town Hall (Building 4), Cupertino, California 95014
Upon arrival, please present your photo identification at the
registration desk.
Directions to the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
Take Interstate 280 (south from San Francisco, north from San Jose) Exit
at De Anza Boulevard
Turn south onto De Anza Boulevard toward Cupertino
Turn left onto Mariani Avenue
Continue on Mariani, which leads into the Apple parking lot
Proceed to Town Hall (Building 4) for meeting registration
Attendance at the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is limited to
shareholders. Admission to the meeting will be on a first-come, first-
served basis. In the interest of saving time and money, Apple has opted
to provide the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September
24, 2016 in lieu of producing a glossy annual report.
. IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE
PERFORATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE.
THIS PROXY IS SOLICITED ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF APPLE INC.
FOR THE 2017 ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON FEBRUARY 28, 2017
The undersigned shareholder of Apple Inc., a California corporation,
hereby acknowledges receipt of the Notice of 2017 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and Proxy Statement with respect to the 2017 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders of Apple Inc. to be held at 1 Infinite Loop, Town Hall
(Building 4), Cupertino, California 95014 on Tuesday, February 28, 2017
at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Time, and hereby appoints Luca Maestri and Bruce
Sewell, and each of them, proxies and attorneys-in-fact, each with power
of substitution and revocation, and each with all powers that the
undersigned would possess if personally present, to vote the Apple Inc.
common stock of the undersigned at such meeting and any postponement(s)
or adjournment(s) of such meeting, as set forth on the reverse side, and
in their discretion upon any other business that may properly come
before the meeting (and any such postponement(s) or adjournment(s)).
THIS PROXY WILL BE VOTED AS SPECIFIED OR, IF NO CHOICE IS SPECIFIED, FOR
THE ELECTION OF THE NOMINEES, FOR PROPOSALS 2 AND 3, 1 YEAR FOR PROPOSAL
4, AGAINST PROPOSALS 5, 6, 7, 8 AND 9, AND AS SAID PROXIES DEEM
ADVISABLE ON SUCH OTHER MATTERS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING
AND ANY POSTPONEMENT(S) OR ADJOURNMENT(S) THEREOF.
PLEASE VOTE, SIGN, DATE AND RETURN THIS PROXY CARD PROMPTLY USING THE
ENCLOSED ENVELOPE OR VOTE BY TELEPHONE OR THE INTERNET.
If you vote by telephone or the Internet, please DO NOT mail back this
proxy card. THANK YOU FOR YOUR VOTE.
C Non-Voting Items
Change of Address — Please print new address below.
Consent
Until contrary notice to Apple Inc., I consent to access all future
notices of annual meetings, proxy statements and annual reports issued
by Apple Inc. over the Internet.
D Authorized Signatures — This section must be completed for your vote
to be counted. — Date and Sign Below
NOTE: Please sign your name(s) EXACTLY as your name(s) appear(s) on this
proxy. All joint holders must sign. When signing as attorney, trustee,
executor, administrator, guardian or corporate officer, please provide
your FULL title.
Date (mm/dd/yyyy) — Please print date below.
Signature 1 — Please keep signature within the box.
Signature 2 — Please keep signature within the box.
IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOU MUST COMPLETE SECTIONS A - D ON BOTH SIDES OF
THIS CARD.

